Abdominal aortic aneurysm	A pulsating feeling near the navel	Deep, constant pain in your abdomen or on the side of your abdomen	Back pain	
Absence seizure	Sudden stop in motion without falling	Lip smacking	Eyelid flutters	Chewing motions	Finger rubbing	Small movements of both hands	
Achilles tendon rupture	Pain, possibly severe, and swelling near your heel	An inability to bend your foot downward or "push off" the injured leg when you walk	An inability to stand on your toes on the injured leg	A popping or snapping sound when the injury occurs	
ACL injury	A loud "pop" sound 	Severe pain and inability to continue activity 	Knee swelling that usually worsens for hours after the injury occurs 	A feeling of instability or "giving way" with weight bearing 	
Acne	Whiteheads (closed plugged pores)	Blackheads (open plugged pores — the oil turns brown when it is exposed to air)	Small red, tender bumps (papules) 	Pimples (pustules), which are papules with pus at their tips 	Large, solid, painful lumps beneath the surface of the skin (nodules) 	Painful, pus-filled lumps beneath the surface of the skin (cystic lesions) 	
Acoustic neuroma	Hearing loss, usually gradual — although in some cases sudden — and occurring on only one side or more pronounced on one side	Ringing (tinnitus) in the affected ear	Unsteadiness, loss of balance	Dizziness (vertigo)	Facial numbness and very rarely, weakness	
Acromegaly	Enlarged hands and feet 	Coarsened, enlarged facial features 	Coarse, oily, thickened skin 	Excessive sweating and body odor 	Small outgrowths of skin tissue (skin tags) 	Fatigue and muscle weakness 	A deepened, husky voice due to enlarged vocal cords and sinuses 	Severe snoring due to obstruction of the upper airway 	Impaired vision 	Headaches 	Enlarged tongue 	Pain and limited joint mobility 	Menstrual cycle irregularities in women 	Erectile dysfunction in men 	Enlarged liver, heart, kidneys, spleen and other organs 	Increased chest size (barrel chest) 	
Actinic keratosis	Rough, dry or scaly patch of skin, usually less than 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) in diameter	Flat to slightly raised patch or bump on the top layer of skin	In some cases, a hard, wart-like surface	Color as varied as pink, red or brown, or flesh-colored	Itching or burning in the affected area	
Acute coronary syndrome	Chest pain (angina) that feels like burning, pressure or tightness 	Pain elsewhere in the body, such as the left upper arm or jaw (referred pain) 	Nausea 	Vomiting 	Shortness of breath (dyspnea) 	Sudden, heavy sweating (diaphoresis) 	
Acute kidney failure	Decreased urine output, although occasionally urine output remains normal	Fluid retention, causing swelling in your legs, ankles or feet	Drowsiness	Shortness of breath	Fatigue	Confusion	Nausea	Seizures or coma in severe cases	Chest pain or pressure	
Acute liver failure	Yellowing of your skin and eyeballs (jaundice)	Pain in your upper right abdomen	Abdominal swelling	Nausea	Vomiting	A general sense of feeling unwell (malaise)	Disorientation or confusion	Sleepiness	
Acute lymphocytic leukemia	Bleeding from the gums	Bone pain	Fever	Frequent infections	Frequent or severe nosebleeds	Lumps caused by swollen lymph nodes in and around the neck, underarm, abdomen or groin	Pale skin	Shortness of breath	Weakness, fatigue or a general decrease in energy	
Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)	Fever 	Bone pain 	Lethargy and fatigue 	Shortness of breath 	Pale skin 	Frequent infections 	Easy bruising 	Unusual bleeding, such as frequent nosebleeds and bleeding from the gums 	
ARDS	Severe shortness of breath	Labored and unusually rapid breathing	Low blood pressure	Confusion and extreme tiredness	
Acute sinusitis	Drainage of a thick, yellow or greenish discharge from the nose or down the back of the throat	Nasal obstruction or congestion, causing difficulty breathing through your nose	Pain, tenderness, swelling and pressure around your eyes, cheeks, nose or forehead	Reduced sense of smell and taste	Cough, which may be worse at night	
Alcoholism	Be unable to limit the amount of alcohol you drink 	Feel a strong need or compulsion to drink 	Develop tolerance to alcohol so that you need more to feel its effects 	Drink alone or hide your drinking 	Experience physical withdrawal symptoms — such as nausea, sweating and shaking — when you don't drink 	Not remember conversations or commitments, sometimes referred to as a "black out" 	Make a ritual of having drinks at certain times and become annoyed when this ritual is disturbed or questioned 	Be irritable when your usual drinking time nears, especially if alcohol isn't available 	Keep alcohol in unlikely places at home, at work or in your car 	Gulp drinks, order doubles or become drunk intentionally to feel good, or drink to feel "normal" 	Have legal problems or problems with relationships, employment or finances due to drinking 	Lose interest in activities and hobbies that used to bring you pleasure 	
Addison's disease	Muscle weakness and fatigue 	Weight loss and decreased appetite 	Darkening of your skin (hyperpigmentation) 	Low blood pressure, even fainting 	Salt craving 	Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) 	Nausea, diarrhea or vomiting 	Muscle or joint pains 	Irritability 	Depression 	Body hair loss or sexual dysfunction in women 	
Adenomyosis	Heavy or prolonged menstrual bleeding	Severe cramping or sharp, knife-like pelvic pain during menstruation (dysmenorrhea)	Menstrual cramps that last throughout your period and worsen as you get older	Pain during intercourse	Bleeding between periods	Passing blood clots during your period	
ADHD in children	Difficulty paying attention	Frequently daydreaming	Difficulty following through on instructions and apparently not listening	Frequently has problems organizing tasks or activities	Frequently forgetful and loses needed items, such as books, pencils or toys	Frequently fails to finish schoolwork, chores or other tasks	Easily distracted	Frequently fidgets or squirms	Difficulty remaining seated and seemly in constant motion	Excessively talkative	Frequently interrupts or intrudes on others' conversations or games	Frequently has trouble waiting for his or her turn	
Adult ADHD	Trouble focusing or concentrating	Restlessness	Impulsivity	Difficulty completing tasks	Disorganization	Low frustration tolerance	Frequent mood swings	Hot temper	Trouble coping with stress	Unstable relationships	
Adjustment disorders	Sadness	Hopelessness	Lack of enjoyment	Crying spells	Nervousness	Jitteriness	Anxiety, which may include separation anxiety	Worry	Desperation	Trouble sleeping	Difficulty concentrating	Feeling overwhelmed	Thoughts of suicide	
Adnexal tumors	Ovaries	Fallopian tubes	Connective tissue around the ovaries or fallopian tubes	
Adult Still's disease	Sore throat. One of the very first symptoms of adult Still's disease is a sore throat. The lymph nodes in your neck also might be swollen and tender. 	Fever. You may experience a daily fever of at least 102 F (38.9 C) for a week or longer. The fever usually peaks in the late afternoon or early evening. Sometimes, you may experience two fever spikes daily. Between episodes, your temperature will likely return to normal. 	Rash. A salmon-pink rash may come and go with the fever. The rash usually appears on your trunk, arms or legs. Physical contact, such as rubbing your skin, may provoke the rash to appear. 	Achy and swollen joints. You may find that your joints — especially your knees, wrists, ankles, elbows, hands and shoulders — are stiff, painful and inflamed. Usually, the joint discomfort lasts at least two weeks. 	Muscle pain. Muscular pain associated with adult Still's disease usually ebbs and flows with the fever, but the pain may be severe enough to disrupt your daily activities. 	
Age spots (liver spots)	Are flat, oval areas of increased pigmentation	Are usually tan, brown or black	Occur on skin that has had the most sun exposure over the years, such as the backs of hands, tops of feet, face, shoulders and upper back	
Agoraphobia	Fear of being alone in any situation	Fear of being in crowded places	Fear of losing control in a public place	Fear of being in places where it may be hard to leave, such as an elevator or train	Inability to leave your home (housebound) or only able to leave it if someone else goes with you	Sense of helplessness	Overdependence on others	
Airplane ear	Moderate discomfort or pain in your ear 	Feeling of fullness or stuffiness in your ear 	Muffled hearing or slight to moderate hearing loss 	
Albinism	Freckles	Moles, with or without pigment — moles without pigment are generally pink-colored	Large freckle-like spots (lentigines)	The ability to tan	
Alcohol intolerance	Facial redness (flushing) 	Warm, red, itchy bumps on the skin (hives) 	Worsening of pre-existing asthma 	Runny or stuffy nose	Headache 	Low blood pressure 	Nausea 	Vomiting 	
Alcohol poisoning	Confusion 	Vomiting 	Seizures 	Slow breathing (less than eight breaths a minute) 	Irregular breathing (a gap of more than 10 seconds between breaths) 	Blue-tinged skin or pale skin 	Low body temperature (hypothermia) 	Passing out (unconsciousness) and can't be awakened 	
Alcoholic hepatitis	Loss of appetite 	Nausea and vomiting 	Abdominal pain and tenderness 	Weight loss 	
Allergies	Sneezing	Itching of the nose, eyes or roof of the mouth	Runny, stuffy nose	Watery, red or swollen eyes (conjunctivitis)	
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	Difficulty walking, tripping or difficulty doing your normal daily activities	Weakness in your leg, feet or ankles	Hand weakness or clumsiness	Slurring of speech or trouble swallowing	Muscle cramps and twitching in your arms, shoulders and tongue	Difficulty holding your head up or keeping a good posture	
Alzheimer's disease	Repeat statements and questions over and over, not realizing that they've asked the question before	Forget conversations, appointments or events, and not remember them later	Routinely misplace possessions, often putting them in illogical locations	Eventually forget the names of family members and everyday objects	
Ambiguous genitalia	An enlarged clitoris, which may resemble a small penis	Closed labia, or labia that include folds and resemble a scrotum	Lumps that feel like testes in the fused labia	
Amenorrhea	Milky nipple discharge	Hair loss	Headache	Vision changes	Excess facial hair	Pelvic pain	Acne	
Amnesia	Impaired ability to learn new information following the onset of amnesia (anterograde amnesia)	Impaired ability to recall past events and previously familiar information (retrograde amnesia)	
Amniotic fluid embolism	Sudden shortness of breath	Excess fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema)	Sudden low blood pressure	Sudden circulatory failure (cardiovascular collapse)	Life-threatening problems with blood clotting (disseminated intravascular coagulopathy)	Altered mental status, such as anxiety	Nausea or vomiting	Chills	Rapid heart rate or disturbances in the rhythm of the heart rate	Fetal distress, such as a slow heart rate	Seizures	Coma	
Amyloidosis	Swelling of your ankles and legs	Severe fatigue and weakness	Shortness of breath	Numbness, tingling or pain in your hands or feet, especially pain in your wrist (carpal tunnel syndrome)	Diarrhea, possibly with blood, or constipation	Feeling full quickly when eating, and significant weight loss	An enlarged tongue	Skin changes, such as thickening or easy bruising, and purplish patches around the eyes	An irregular heartbeat	Difficulty swallowing	
Anal cancer	Bleeding from the anus or rectum	Pain in the area of the anus	A mass or growth in the anal canal	Anal itching	
Anal fissure	Pain, sometimes severe, during bowel movements 	Pain after bowel movements that can last up to several hours	Bright red blood on the stool or toilet paper after a bowel movement	Itching or irritation around the anus	A visible crack in the skin around the anus	A small lump or skin tag on the skin near the anal fissure	
Anal itching	Anal itching is severe or lasts longer than one to two months 	There's bleeding from the rectum 	You can't figure out what's causing a persistent itch 	
Anaphylaxis	Skin reactions, including hives along with itching, and flushed or pale skin (almost always present with anaphylaxis) 	A feeling of warmth 	The sensation of a lump in your throat 	Constriction of the airways and a swollen tongue or throat, which can cause wheezing and trouble breathing 	A weak and rapid pulse 	Nausea, vomiting or diarrhea 	Dizziness or fainting 	
Anemia	Fatigue	Weakness	Pale skin	A fast or irregular heartbeat	Shortness of breath	Chest pain	Dizziness	Cognitive problems	Cold hands and feet	Headache	
Aplastic anemia	Fatigue	Shortness of breath with exertion	Rapid or irregular heart rate	Pale skin	Frequent or prolonged infections	Unexplained or easy bruising	Nosebleeds and bleeding gums	Prolonged bleeding from cuts	Skin rash	Dizziness	Headache	
Aneurysms	
    Aortic aneurysm. An aortic aneurysm forms in your aorta, a major blood vessel about the size of a garden hose. Your aorta carries blood from your heart to your vital organs. You may not know you have an aneurysm because they usually don't cause symptoms, even when they are large. However, an aneurysm can burst (rupture) or split (dissect), causing internal bleeding and often leading to death.
    Abdominal aortic aneurysms form along the aorta in the section that passes through your abdomen. Thoracic aortic aneurysms form along the aorta in the section that passes through your chest area. Thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms form along the section of the aorta between your chest area and abdomen.
    	
    Brain aneurysm. A brain aneurysm occurs in a blood vessel supplying your brain, usually at branching points of arteries. The weakened area forms a small sac or balloon that fills with blood. Brain aneurysms can rupture and cause bleeding into your brain, resulting in a subarachnoid hemorrhage.
    Some small brain aneurysms, especially those located on the arteries in the front part of your brain, have a low risk of rupture. Doctors will assess the size, location and appearance of the aneurysm to clarify the risk of rupture. Medical and family history also can help clarify the risk. Doctors will then compare that risk to the risk of treatment and decide whether to manage or treat the aneurysm.
    	Peripheral aneurysm. A peripheral aneurysm forms in other blood vessels in your body, including arteries in your legs, groin or neck.	
Angelman syndrome	Developmental delays, such as lack of crawling or babbling at 6 to 12 months, and intellectual disability	Lack of or minimal speech	Inability to walk, move or balance well (ataxia)	Frequent smiling and laughter	Happy, excitable personality	
Angina	Chest pain or discomfort	Pain in your arms, neck, jaw, shoulder or back accompanying chest pain	Nausea	Fatigue	Shortness of breath	Sweating	Dizziness	
Anhidrosis	Little or no perspiration	Dizziness	Muscle cramps or weakness	Flushing	Feeling hot	
Ankylosing spondylitis	The joint between the base of your spine and your pelvis	The vertebrae in your lower back	The places where your tendons and ligaments attach to bones, mainly in your spine, but sometimes along the back of your heel	The cartilage between your breastbone and ribs	Your hip and shoulder joints	
Anorexia nervosa	Extreme weight loss	Thin appearance	Abnormal blood counts	Fatigue	Insomnia	Dizziness or fainting	Bluish discoloration of the fingers	Hair that thins, breaks or falls out	Soft, downy hair covering the body	Absence of menstruation	Constipation	Dry or yellowish skin	Intolerance of cold	Irregular heart rhythms	Low blood pressure	Dehydration	Osteoporosis	Swelling of arms or legs	
Anorgasmia	Lifelong anorgasmia. This means you've never experienced an orgasm.	Acquired anorgasmia. This means you used to have orgasms, but now experience difficulty reaching climax.	Situational anorgasmia. This means you are able to orgasm only during certain circumstances, such as during oral sex or with a certain partner. Most women can't reach orgasm through vaginal penetration alone.	Generalized anorgasmia. This means you aren't able to orgasm in any situation or with any partner.	
Anterior prolapse (cystocele)	A feeling of fullness or pressure in your pelvis and vagina	Increased discomfort when you strain, cough, bear down or lift	A feeling that you haven't completely emptied your bladder after urinating	Repeated bladder infections	Pain or urinary leakage during sexual intercourse	In severe cases, a bulge of tissue that protrudes through your vaginal opening and may feel like sitting on an egg	
Anthrax	A raised, itchy bump resembling an insect bite that quickly develops into a painless sore with a black center	Swelling in the sore and nearby lymph glands	
Antibiotic-associated diarrhea	Loose stools 	More-frequent bowel movements 	
Antiphospholipid syndrome	Blood clots in your legs (deep vein thrombosis, or DVT) that may travel to your lungs (pulmonary embolism)	Repeated miscarriages or stillbirths and other complications of pregnancy, such as premature delivery and high blood pressure during pregnancy (preeclampsia)	Stroke	Blood clots in the arteries of your arms or legs (peripheral arterial thrombosis)	
Antisocial personality disorder	Disregard for right and wrong 	Persistent lying or deceit to exploit others 	Using charm or wit to manipulate others for personal gain or for sheer personal pleasure 	Intense egocentrism, sense of superiority and exhibitionism 	Recurring difficulties with the law 	Repeatedly violating the rights of others by the use of intimidation, dishonesty and misrepresentation 	Child abuse or neglect 	Hostility, significant irritability, agitation, impulsiveness, aggression or violence 	Lack of empathy for others and lack of remorse about harming others 	Unnecessary risk-taking or dangerous behaviors 	Poor or abusive relationships 	Irresponsible work behavior 	Failure to learn from the negative consequences of behavior 	
Anxiety	Feeling nervous	Feeling powerless	Having a sense of impending danger, panic or doom	Having an increased heart rate	Breathing rapidly (hyperventilation)	Sweating	Trembling	Feeling weak or tired	Trouble concentrating or thinking about anything other than the present worry	
Aortic aneurysm	Abdominal aortic aneurysm. An abdominal aortic aneurysm occurs along the part of the aorta that passes through the abdomen. 	Thoracic aortic aneurysm. A thoracic aortic aneurysm occurs along the part of the aorta that passes through the chest cavity. 	
Aortic dissection	Sudden severe chest or upper back pain, often described as a tearing, ripping or shearing sensation, that radiates to the neck or down the back	Loss of consciousness	Shortness of breath	Sudden difficulty speaking, loss of vision, weakness or paralysis of one side of your body, similar to those of a stroke	Weak pulse in one arm compared with the other	
Aortic valve disease	Aortic valve stenosis. In this condition, the aortic valve opening is narrowed. This narrowing prevents the valve from opening fully, which obstructs blood flow from your heart into your aorta and the rest of your body. 	Aortic valve regurgitation. In this condition, the aortic valve doesn't close properly, causing blood to flow backward into the left ventricle. 	
Aortic valve regurgitation	Fatigue and weakness, especially when you increase your activity level	Shortness of breath with exertion or when you lie down	Swollen ankles and feet (edema)	Chest pain (angina), discomfort or tightness, often increasing during exercise	Lightheadedness or fainting	Irregular pulse (arrhythmia)	Heart murmur	Sensations of a rapid, fluttering heartbeat (palpitations)	
Aortic valve stenosis	Chest pain (angina) or tightness	Feeling faint or fainting with exertion	Shortness of breath, especially with exertion	Fatigue, especially during times of increased activity	Heart palpitations — sensations of a rapid, fluttering heartbeat 	Heart murmur	
Aphasia	Speak in short or incomplete sentences	Speak in sentences that don't make sense	Speak unrecognizable words	Not comprehend other people's conversation	Interpret figurative language literally	Write sentences that don't make sense	
Appendicitis	Sudden pain that begins on the right side of the lower abdomen	Sudden pain that begins around your navel and often shifts to your lower right abdomen	Pain that worsens if you cough, walk or make other jarring movements	Nausea and vomiting	Loss of appetite	Low-grade fever that may worsen as the illness progresses	Constipation or diarrhea	Abdominal bloating	
Arteriosclerosis / atherosclerosis	If you have atherosclerosis in your heart arteries, you may have symptoms, such as chest pain or pressure (angina).	If you have atherosclerosis in the arteries leading to your brain, you may have signs and symptoms such as sudden numbness or weakness in your arms or legs, difficulty speaking or slurred speech, or drooping muscles in your face. These signal a transient ischemic attack (TIA), which, if left untreated, may progress to a stroke.	If you have atherosclerosis in the arteries in your arms and legs, you may have symptoms of peripheral artery disease, such as leg pain when walking (intermittent claudication).	If you have atherosclerosis in the arteries leading to your kidneys, you develop high blood pressure or kidney failure.	If you have atherosclerosis in the arteries leading to your genitals, you may have difficulties having sex. Sometimes, atherosclerosis can cause erectile dysfunction in men. In women, high blood pressure can reduce blood flow to the vagina, making sex less pleasurable.	
Arteriovenous fistula	Swelling and reddish appearance on the skin surface	Purplish, bulging veins that you can see through your skin, similar to varicose veins	Swelling in the arms or legs	Decreased blood pressure	Fatigue	Heart failure	
Arthritis	Pain	Stiffness	Swelling	Redness	Decreased range of motion	
Asbestosis	Shortness of breath 	A persistent, dry cough 	Loss of appetite with weight loss 	Fingertips and toes that appear wider and rounder than normal (clubbing) 	Chest tightness or pain 	
Ascariasis	Persistent cough	Shortness of breath	Wheezing	
Atrial septal defect	Shortness of breath, especially when exercising	Fatigue	Swelling of legs, feet or abdomen	Heart palpitations or skipped beats	Frequent lung infections	Stroke	Heart murmur, a whooshing sound that can be heard through a stethoscope	
Aspergillosis	Fever	A cough that may bring up blood or plugs of mucus	Worsening asthma	
Asthma	Shortness of breath	Chest tightness or pain	Trouble sleeping caused by shortness of breath, coughing or wheezing	A whistling or wheezing sound when exhaling (wheezing is a common sign of asthma in children)	Coughing or wheezing attacks that are worsened by a respiratory virus, such as a cold or the flu	
Asthma attack	Severe shortness of breath, chest tightness or pain, and coughing or wheezing	Low peak expiratory flow (PEF) readings, if you use a peak flow meter	Worsening symptoms despite use of a quick-relief (rescue) inhaler	
Astigmatism	Blurred or distorted vision 	Eyestrain 	Headaches 	
Ataxia	Poor coordination	Unsteady walk and a tendency to stumble	Difficulty with fine motor tasks, such as eating, writing or buttoning a shirt	Change in speech	Involuntary back-and-forth eye movements (nystagmus)	Difficulty swallowing	
Atelectasis	Difficulty breathing (dyspnea)	Rapid, shallow breathing	Coughing	Low-grade fever	
Atopic dermatitis (eczema)	Itching, which may be severe, especially at night	Red to brownish-gray patches, especially on the hands, feet, ankles, wrists, neck, upper chest, eyelids, inside the bend of the elbows and knees, and, in infants, the face and scalp	Small, raised bumps, which may leak fluid and crust over when scratched	Thickened, cracked, dry, scaly skin	Raw, sensitive, swollen skin from scratching	
Atrial fibrillation	Palpitations, which are sensations of a racing, uncomfortable, irregular heartbeat or a flip-flopping in your chest	Weakness	Reduced ability to exercise	Fatigue	Lightheadedness	Dizziness	Confusion	Shortness of breath	Chest pain	
Atrioventricular canal defect	Difficulty breathing (dyspnea) 	Lack of appetite 	Poor weight gain 	Bluish discoloration of the lips and skin (cyanosis) 	
Atypical depression	Depression that temporarily lifts when you're cheered up by good news or positive events but returns later	Increased appetite with unintentional weight gain	Increased desire to sleep, usually more than 10 hours a day	Heavy, leaden feeling in your arms and legs that lasts an hour or more in a day	Trouble maintaining long-lasting relationships because of sensitivity to rejection or criticism, which affects your relationships, social life or job	
Autism spectrum disorder	Fails to respond to his or her name or appears not to hear you at times	Resists cuddling and holding and seems to prefer playing alone — retreats into his or her own world	Has poor eye contact and lacks facial expression	Doesn't speak or has delayed speech, or may lose previous ability to say words or sentences	Can't start a conversation or keep one going, or may only start a conversation to make requests or label items	Speaks with an abnormal tone or rhythm — may use a singsong voice or robot-like speech	May repeat words or phrases verbatim, but doesn't understand how to use them	Doesn't appear to understand simple questions or directions	Doesn't express emotions or feelings and appears unaware of others' feelings	Doesn't point at or bring objects to share interest	Inappropriately approaches a social interaction by being passive, aggressive or disruptive	
Autoimmune hepatitis	Fatigue	Abdominal discomfort	Joint pain	Itching (pruritus)	Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice)	An enlarged liver	Abnormal blood vessels on the skin (spider angiomas)	Nausea and vomiting	Loss of appetite	Skin rashes	Dark-colored urine	In women, loss of menstruation 	
Autoimmune pancreatitis	Dark urine	Pale stools or stools that float in the toilet	Yellow skin and eyes (jaundice)	Pain in your upper abdomen or middle part of your back	Nausea and vomiting	Weakness or extreme tiredness	Loss of appetite or feelings of fullness	Weight loss for no known reason	
Autonomic neuropathy	Dizziness and fainting upon standing caused by a drop in blood pressure. 	Urinary problems, including difficulty starting urination, urinary incontinence and an inability to completely empty your bladder, which can lead to urinary tract infections. 	Sexual difficulties, including problems achieving or maintaining an erection (erectile dysfunction) or ejaculation problems in men, and vaginal dryness and difficulties with arousal and orgasm in women. 	Difficulty digesting food, due to abnormal digestive function and slow emptying of the stomach (gastroparesis). This can cause a feeling of fullness after eating little, loss of appetite, diarrhea, constipation, abdominal bloating, nausea, vomiting, difficulty swallowing and heartburn. 	Sweating abnormalities, such as excessive or decreased sweating, which affects the ability to regulate body temperature. 	Sluggish pupil reaction, making it difficult to adjust from light to dark and causing problems with driving at night. 	Exercise intolerance, which may occur if your heart rate remains unchanged instead of appropriately increasing and decreasing in response to your activity level. 	
Back pain	Muscle ache	Shooting or stabbing pain	Pain that radiates down your leg	Limited flexibility or range of motion of the back	Inability to stand up straight	
Bacterial vaginosis	Vaginal discharge that's thin and grayish white	Foul-smelling "fishy" vaginal odor, especially after sexual intercourse	Vaginal itching	Burning during urination	
Bags under eyes	Mild swelling	Saggy or loose skin	Dark circles	
Baker's cyst	Swelling behind your knee, and sometimes in your leg 	Knee pain 	Stiffness 	
Barrett's esophagus	Frequent heartburn	Difficulty swallowing food	Less commonly, chest pain	
Bartholin's cyst	A tender or painful lump near the vaginal opening	Discomfort while walking or sitting	Pain during intercourse	Fever	
Basal cell carcinoma	A pearly white or waxy bump, often with visible blood vessels, on your face, ears or neck. The bump may bleed and develop a crust. In darker skinned people, this type of cancer may be brown or black.	A flat, scaly, brown or flesh-colored patch on your back or chest. Over time, these patches can grow quite large.	More rarely, a white, waxy scar. This type of basal cell carcinoma is easy to overlook, but it may be a sign of a particularly invasive and disfiguring cancer called morpheaform basal cell carcinoma.	
Body dysmorphic disorder	Preoccupation with your physical appearance with extreme self-consciousness 	Frequent examination of yourself in the mirror, or the opposite, avoidance of mirrors altogether 	Strong belief that you have an abnormality or defect in your appearance that makes you ugly 	Belief that others take special notice of your appearance in a negative way 	Avoidance of social situations 	Feeling the need to stay housebound 	The need to seek reassurance about your appearance from others 	Frequent cosmetic procedures with little satisfaction 	Excessive grooming, such as hair plucking or skin picking, or excessive exercise in an unsuccessful effort to improve the flaw 	The need to grow a beard or wear excessive makeup or clothing to camouflage perceived flaws 	Comparison of your appearance with that of others 	Reluctance to appear in pictures 	
Bed-wetting	Your child still wets the bed after age 7	Your child starts to wet the bed after a few months or more of being dry at night	Bed-wetting is accompanied by painful urination, unusual thirst, pink or red urine, hard stools, or snoring	
Bedbugs	Red, often with a darker red spot in the middle	Itchy	Arranged in a rough line or in a cluster	Located on the face, neck, arms and hands	
Bedsores (pressure sores)	The skin is not broken.	The skin appears red on people with lighter skin color, and the skin doesn't briefly lighten (blanch) when touched.	On people with darker skin, the skin may show discoloration, and it doesn't blanch when touched.	The site may be tender, painful, firm, soft, warm or cool compared with the surrounding skin.	
Bee stings	Instant, sharp burning pain at the sting site 	A red welt at the sting area 	A small, white spot where the stinger punctured the skin 	Slight swelling around the sting area 	
Behcet's disease	Mouth. Painful mouth sores, that look similar to canker sores, are the most common sign of Behcet's disease. Sores begin as raised, round lesions in the mouth that quickly turn into painful ulcers. The sores heal usually in about one to three weeks, though they do recur. 	Skin. Skin lesions may occur in people with Behcet's disease. Skin problems can vary. Some people may develop acne-like sores on their bodies. Others may develop red, raised and tender nodules on their skin, especially on the lower legs. 	Genitals. People with Behcet's disease may develop sores on their genitals. The sores commonly occur on the scrotum or the vulva. Sores appear as red, ulcerated lesions. The genital sores are usually painful and may leave scars. 	Eyes. Behcet's disease may cause inflammation in the eye — a condition called uveitis (u-vee-I-tis). In people with Behcet's disease, uveitis causes redness, pain and blurred vision in one or both eyes and may come and go. Inflammation that occurs in the blood vessels of the retina is a serious complication of the disorder. 	Joints. Joint swelling and pain often affect the knees in people with Behcet's disease. The ankles, elbows or wrists also may be involved. Signs and symptoms may last one to three weeks and go away on their own. 	Vascular system. Inflammation in veins and large arteries may occur in Behcet's disease, causing redness, pain and swelling in the arms or legs when a blood clot results. In fact, many of the signs and symptoms of Behcet's are believed to be caused by inflammation of the blood vessels (vasculitis). Inflammation in the large arteries can lead to complications, such as aneurysms and narrowing or blockage of the vessel. 	Digestive system. Behcet's disease may cause a variety of signs and symptoms that affect the digestive system, including abdominal pain, diarrhea or bleeding. 	Brain. Behcet's disease may cause inflammation in the brain and nervous system that leads to headache, fever, disorientation, poor balance or stroke. 	
Bell's palsy	Rapid onset of mild weakness to total paralysis on one side of your face — occurring within hours to days	Facial droop and difficulty making facial expressions, such as closing your eye or smiling	Drooling	Pain around the jaw or in or behind your ear on the affected side	Increased sensitivity to sound on the affected side	Headache	A decrease in your ability to taste	Changes in the amount of tears and saliva you produce	
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV)	Dizziness 	A sense that you or your surroundings are spinning or moving (vertigo) 	Lightheadedness 	Unsteadiness 	A loss of balance 	Blurred vision associated with the sensation of vertigo 	Nausea 	Vomiting 	
Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)	Frequent or urgent need to urinate	Increased frequency of urination at night (nocturia)	Difficulty starting urination	Weak urine stream or a stream that stops and starts	Dribbling at the end of urination	Straining while urinating	Inability to completely empty the bladder	
Bile reflux	Upper abdominal pain that may be severe	Frequent heartburn — a burning sensation in your chest that sometimes spreads to your throat, along with a sour taste in your mouth	Nausea	Vomiting a greenish-yellow fluid (bile)	Occasionally, a cough or hoarseness	Unintended weight loss	
Binge-eating disorder	Eating unusually large amounts of food 	Eating even when you're full or not hungry 	Eating rapidly during binge episodes 	Eating until you're uncomfortably full 	Frequently eating alone 	Feeling that your eating behavior is out of control 	Feeling depressed, disgusted, ashamed, guilty or upset about your eating 	Experiencing depression and anxiety 	Feeling isolated and having difficulty talking about your feelings 	Frequently dieting, possibly without weight loss 	Losing and gaining weight repeatedly, also called yo-yo dieting 	
Bipolar disorder	Bipolar I disorder. You've had at least one manic episode. The manic episode may be preceded by or followed by hypomanic or major depressive episodes. Mania symptoms cause significant impairment in your life and may require hospitalization or trigger a break from reality (psychosis).	Bipolar II disorder. You've had at least one major depressive episode lasting at least two weeks and at least one hypomanic episode lasting at least four days, but you've never had a manic episode. Major depressive episodes or the unpredictable changes in mood and behavior can cause distress or difficulty in areas of your life. 	Cyclothymic disorder. You've had at least two years — or one year in children and teenagers — of numerous periods of hypomania symptoms (less severe than a hypomanic episode) and periods of depressive symptoms (less severe than a major depressive episode). During that time, symptoms occur at least half the time and never go away for more than two months. Symptoms cause significant distress in important areas of your life.	Other types. These include, for example, bipolar and related disorder due to another medical condition, such as Cushing's disease, multiple sclerosis or stroke. Another type is called substance and medication-induced bipolar and related disorder.	
Bird flu (avian influenza)	Cough	Fever	Sore throat	Muscle aches	Headache	Shortness of breath	
Black hairy tongue	Black discoloration of the tongue, although the color may be brown, tan, green, yellow or white	A hairy or furry appearance of the tongue	Altered taste or metallic taste in mouth	Bad breath (halitosis)	Gagging or tickling sensation, if the overgrowth of the papillae is excessive	
Bladder stones	Lower abdominal pain 	In men, pain or discomfort in the penis 	Painful urination 	Frequent urination 	Difficulty urinating or interruption of urine flow 	Blood in your urine 	Cloudy or abnormally dark-colored urine 	
Bladder cancer	Blood in urine (hematuria) — urine may appear dark yellow, bright red or cola colored. Or urine may appear normal, but blood may be detected in a microscopic examination of the urine	Frequent urination	Painful urination	Back pain	Pelvic pain	
Blastocystis hominis infection	Diarrhea 	Nausea 	Abdominal cramps 	Bloating 	Excessive gas (flatulence) 	Anal itching 	Loss of appetite 	Weight loss 	Fatigue 	
Blepharitis	Watery eyes	Red eyes	A gritty, burning sensation in the eye	Eyelids that appear greasy	Itchy eyelids	Red, swollen eyelids	Flaking of the skin around the eyes	Crusted eyelashes upon awakening	Eyelid sticking	More frequent blinking	Sensitivity to light	Eyelashes that grow abnormally (misdirected eyelashes)	Loss of eyelashes	
Blind loop syndrome	Loss of appetite	Abdominal pain	Nausea	Bloating	An uncomfortable feeling of fullness after eating	Diarrhea	Unintentional weight loss	
Blocked tear duct	Excessive tearing	Recurrent eye inflammation (conjunctivitis)	Recurrent eye infections	Painful swelling near the inside corner of the eye	Mucus or  pus discharge  from the lids and surface of the eye	Blurred vision	
Burning mouth syndrome	A burning sensation that most commonly affects your tongue, but may also affect your lips, gums, palate, throat or whole mouth	A sensation of dry mouth with increased thirst	Taste changes, such as a bitter or metallic taste	Loss of taste	
Boils and carbuncles	A painful, red bump that starts out about the size of a pea 	Red, swollen skin around the bump 	An increase in the size of the bump over a few days as it fills with pus (can sometimes reach the size of a baseball) 	Development of a yellow-white tip that eventually ruptures and allows the pus to drain out 	
Bone cancer	Bone pain	Swelling and tenderness near the affected area	Broken bone	Fatigue	Unintended weight loss	
Bone metastasis	Bone pain	Broken bones	Urinary incontinence	Bowel incontinence	Weakness in the legs	High levels of calcium in the blood (hypercalcemia), which can cause nausea, vomiting and confusion	
Bone spurs	Knee. Bone spurs in your knee may make it painful to extend and bend your leg. The bony growths can get in the way of bones and tendons that keep your knee operating smoothly.	Spine. Bone spurs on your vertebrae can narrow the space that contains your spinal cord. These bone spurs can pinch the spinal cord or its nerve roots and can cause weakness or numbness in your arms or legs.	Hip. Bone spurs can make it painful to move your hip, although you might feel the pain in your knee. Depending on their placement, bone spurs can reduce the range of motion in your hip joint.	Shoulder. Bone spurs can rub on your rotator cuff, a group of muscles and tendons that help control your shoulder movements. This can cause swelling (tendinitis) and tears in your rotator cuff.	Fingers. Appearing as hard lumps under your skin, bone spurs can make the joints in your fingers look knobby.	
Borderline personality disorder	Impulsive and risky behavior, such as risky driving, unsafe sex, gambling sprees or illegal drug use 	Awareness of destructive behavior, including self-injury, but sometimes feeling unable to change it 	Wide mood swings 	Short but intense episodes of anxiety or depression 	Inappropriate anger and antagonistic behavior, sometimes escalating into physical fights 	Difficulty controlling emotions or impulses 	Suicidal behavior 	Feeling misunderstood, neglected, alone, empty or hopeless 	Fear of being alone 	Feelings of self-hate and self-loathing 	
Botulism	Difficulty swallowing or speaking 	Dry mouth 	Facial weakness on both sides of the face 	Blurred or double vision	Drooping eyelids 	Trouble breathing 	Nausea, vomiting and abdominal cramps 	Paralysis 	
Brachial plexus injury	A feeling like an electric shock or a burning sensation shooting down your arm	Numbness and weakness in your arm	
Bradycardia	Near-fainting or fainting (syncope)	Dizziness	Weakness	Fatigue	Shortness of breath	Chest pains	Confusion or memory problems	Easily tiring during physical activity	
Brain aneurysm	Sudden, extremely severe headache	Nausea and vomiting	Stiff neck	Blurred or double vision	Sensitivity to light	Seizure	A drooping eyelid	Loss of consciousness	Confusion	
Brain AVM (arteriovenous malformation)	Seizures	A whooshing sound (bruit) that can be heard on examination of the skull with a stethoscope or may be audible if you have an AVM	Headache	Progressive weakness or numbness	
Breast cancer	A breast lump or thickening that feels different from the surrounding tissue	Bloody discharge from the nipple	Change in the size, shape or appearance of a breast	Changes to the skin over the breast, such as dimpling	A newly inverted nipple	Peeling, scaling or flaking of the pigmented area of skin surrounding the nipple (areola) or breast skin	Redness or pitting of the skin over your breast, like the skin of an orange	
Breast cysts	A smooth, easily movable round or oval breast lump with distinct edges (which typically, though not always, indicates it's benign)	Usually found in one breast, but can affect both breasts at the same time	Breast pain or tenderness in the area of the breast lump	Increase in breast lump size and breast tenderness just before your period	Decrease in breast lump size and resolution of other signs and symptoms after your period	
Broken ankle/broken foot	Immediate, throbbing pain	Pain that increases with activity and decreases with rest	Swelling	Bruising	Tenderness	Deformity	Difficulty in walking or bearing weight	Problems getting a shoe on or off	
Broken arm	Severe pain, which may increase with movement	Swelling	Bruising	Deformity, such as a bent arm or wrist	Inability to turn your arm from palm up to palm down or vice versa	
Broken collarbone	Pain that increases with shoulder movement	Swelling	Tenderness	Bruising	A bulge on or near your shoulder	A grinding or crackling sound when you try to move your shoulder	Stiffness or inability to move your shoulder	
Broken wrist/broken hand	Severe pain that tends to increase during gripping or squeezing	Swelling	Tenderness	Bruising	Obvious deformity, such as a bent wrist or crooked finger	Stiffness or inability to move your fingers or thumb	Numbness in your hand	
Broken heart syndrome	Chest pain	Shortness of breath	
Broken leg	Severe pain, which may worsen with movement	Swelling	Tenderness	Bruising	Obvious deformity or shortening of the affected leg	Inability to walk	
Broken nose	Pain or tenderness, especially when touching your nose	Swelling of your nose and surrounding areas	Bleeding from your nose	Bruising around your nose or eyes	Crooked or misshapen nose	Difficulty breathing through your nose	Discharge of mucus from your nose	Feeling that one or both of your nasal passages are blocked	
Broken ribs	Take a deep breath	Press on the injured area	Bend or twist your body	
Broken toe	Pain	Swelling	Discoloration	
Bronchiolitis	Runny nose 	Stuffy nose 	Cough 	Slight fever (not always present) 	
Bronchitis	Cough	Production of mucus (sputum), which can be clear, white, yellowish-gray or green in color — rarely, it may be streaked with blood	Fatigue	Shortness of breath	Slight fever and chills	Chest discomfort	
Brucellosis	Fever	Chills	Sweats	Weakness	Fatigue	Joint, muscle and back pain	Headache	
Brugada syndrome	Fainting (syncope)	Irregular heartbeats or palpitations	Extremely fast and chaotic heartbeat (sudden cardiac arrest)	
Bruxism (teeth grinding)	Teeth grinding or clenching, which may be loud enough to awaken your sleep partner	Teeth that are flattened, fractured, chipped or loose	Worn tooth enamel, exposing deeper layers of your tooth	Increased tooth sensitivity	Jaw or face pain or soreness	Tired or tight jaw muscles	Pain that feels like an earache, though it's actually not a problem with your ear	Dull headache originating in the temples	Damage from chewing on the inside of your cheek	Indentations on your tongue	
Buerger's disease	Pain that may come and go in your legs and feet or in your arms and hands. This pain typically occurs when you use your hands or feet and eases when you stop that activity (claudication).	Inflammation along a vein just below the skin's surface (due to a blood clot in the vein).	Fingers and toes that turn pale when exposed to cold (Raynaud's phenomenon).	Painful open sores on your fingers and toes.	
Bulimia nervosa	Being preoccupied with your body shape and weight 	Living in fear of gaining weight 	Feeling that you can't control your eating behavior 	Eating until the point of discomfort or pain 	Eating much more food in a binge episode than in a normal meal or snack 	Forcing yourself to vomit or exercise too much 	Misusing laxatives, diuretics or enemas after eating 	Using dietary supplements or herbal products for weight loss 	
Bundle branch block	Fainting (syncope)	Feeling as if you're going to faint (presyncope)	Having a slow heart rate (bradycardia)	
Bunions	A bulging bump on the outside of the base of your big toe	Swelling, redness or soreness around your big toe joint	Thickening of the skin at the base of your big toe	Corns or calluses — these often develop where the first and second toes overlap	Persistent or intermittent pain	Restricted movement of your big toe	
Burns	First-degree burn. This minor burn affects only the outer layer of the skin (epidermis). It causes redness and pain and usually resolves with first-aid measures within several days to a week. Sunburn is a classic example.	Second-degree burn. These burns affect both the epidermis and the second layer of skin (dermis), causing redness, pain and swelling. A second-degree burn often looks wet or moist. Blisters may develop and pain can be severe. Deep second-degree burns can cause scarring.	Third-degree burn. Burns that reach into the fat layer beneath the dermis are called third-degree burns. The skin may appear stiff, waxy white, leathery or tan. Third-degree burns can destroy nerves, causing numbness.	Fourth-degree burn. The most severe form of burn affects structures well beyond the skin, such as muscle and bones. The skin may appear blackened or charred. If nerve damage is substantial, you may feel no pain at all.	
Bursitis	Feel achy or stiff	Hurt more when you move it or press on it	Look swollen and red	
C. difficile	Watery diarrhea three or more times a day for two or more days	Mild abdominal cramping and tenderness	
Corns and calluses	A thick, rough area of skin	A hardened, raised bump	Tenderness or pain under your skin	Flaky, dry or waxy skin	
Cancer	Fatigue	Lump or area of thickening that can be felt under the skin	Weight changes, including unintended loss or gain	Skin changes, such as yellowing, darkening or redness of the skin, sores that won't heal, or changes to existing moles	Changes in bowel or bladder habits	Persistent cough	Difficulty swallowing	Hoarseness	Persistent indigestion or discomfort after eating	Persistent, unexplained muscle or joint pain	Persistent, unexplained fevers or night sweats	
Carcinoid tumors	Chest pain	Wheezing	Shortness of breath	Diarrhea	Redness or a feeling of warmth in your face and neck (skin flushing)	Weight gain, particularly around the midsection and upper back	Pink or purple marks on the skin that look like stretch marks	
Cervical cancer	Vaginal bleeding after intercourse, between periods or after menopause	Watery, bloody vaginal discharge that may be heavy and have a foul odor	Pelvic pain or pain during intercourse	
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia	Enlarged, but painless, lymph nodes	Fatigue	Fever	Pain in the upper left portion of the abdomen, which may be caused by an enlarged spleen	Night sweats	Weight loss	Frequent infections	
Chronic myelogenous leukemia	Symptoms	
Colon cancer	A change in your bowel habits, including diarrhea or constipation or a change in the consistency of your stool	Rectal bleeding or blood in your stool	Persistent abdominal discomfort, such as cramps, gas or pain	A feeling that your bowel doesn't empty completely	Weakness or fatigue	Unexplained weight loss	
Canker sore	Are usually small 	Are oval shaped 	Heal without scarring in one to two weeks 	
Carbon monoxide poisoning	Dull headache	Weakness	Dizziness	Nausea or vomiting	Shortness of breath	Confusion	Blurred vision	Loss of consciousness	
Carcinoid syndrome	Skin flushing. The skin on your face and upper chest feels hot and changes color — ranging from pink to red to purple. Flushing episodes may last from a few minutes to a few hours or longer. Flushing may happen for no obvious reason, though sometimes it can be triggered by stress, exercise or drinking alcohol.	Facial skin lesions. Purplish areas of spider-like veins may appear on the nose and upper lip.	Diarrhea. Frequent, watery stools sometimes accompanied by abdominal cramps may occur in people who have carcinoid syndrome.	Difficulty breathing. Asthma-like signs and symptoms, such as wheezing and shortness of breath, may occur at the same time you experience skin flushing.	Rapid heartbeat. Periods of fast heart rate could be a sign of carcinoid syndrome.	
Cardiogenic shock	Rapid breathing	Severe shortness of breath	Sudden, rapid heartbeat (tachycardia)	Loss of consciousness 	Weak pulse	Sweating	Pale skin	Cold hands or feet	Urinating less than normal or not at all	
Cardiomyopathy	Breathlessness with exertion or even at rest	Swelling of the legs, ankles and feet	Bloating of the abdomen due to fluid buildup	Cough	Fatigue	Irregular heartbeats that feel rapid, pounding or fluttering	Dizziness, lightheadedness and fainting	
Carotid artery disease	Sudden numbness or weakness in the face or limbs, often on only one side of the body	Sudden trouble speaking and understanding	Sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes	Sudden dizziness or loss of balance	Sudden, severe headache with no known cause	
Carpal tunnel syndrome	    Tingling or numbness. You may experience tingling and numbness in your fingers or hand, especially your thumb and index, middle or ring fingers, but not your little finger. This sensation often occurs while holding a steering wheel, phone or newspaper or, commonly, waking you from sleeping. The sensation may extend from your wrist up your arm.    Many people "shake out" their hands to try to relieve their symptoms. As the disorder progresses, the numb feeling may become constant.    	Weakness. You may experience weakness in your hand and a tendency to drop objects. This may be due to the numbness in your hand or weakness of the thumb's pinching muscles, which are controlled by the median nerve.	
Castleman disease	Unicentric Castleman disease. This localized form of the disease affects only a single gland (lymph node) in your lymphatic system.	Multicentric Castleman disease. This type affects multiple lymph nodes and lymphatic tissues, and can severely weaken your immune system. 	
Cataracts	Clouded, blurred or dim vision 	Increasing difficulty with vision at night 	Sensitivity to light and glare 	Seeing "halos" around lights 	Frequent changes in eyeglass or contact lens prescription 	Fading or yellowing of colors 	Double vision in a single eye 	
Complex regional pain syndrome	Continuous burning or throbbing pain, usually in your arm, leg, hand or foot	Sensitivity to touch or cold	Swelling of the painful area	Changes in skin temperature — at times your skin may be sweaty; at other times it may be cold	Changes in skin color, which can range from white and mottled to red or blue	Changes in skin texture, which may become tender, thin or shiny in the affected area	Changes in hair and nail growth	Joint stiffness, swelling and damage	Muscle spasms, weakness and loss (atrophy)	Decreased ability to move the affected body part	
Cavities/tooth decay	Toothache	Tooth sensitivity	Mild to sharp pain when eating or drinking something sweet, hot or cold	Visible holes or pits in your teeth	Brown, black or white staining on any surface of a tooth	Pain when you bite down	
Celiac disease	Anemia, usually resulting from iron deficiency	Loss of bone density (osteoporosis) or softening of bone (osteomalacia)	Itchy, blistery skin rash (dermatitis herpetiformis)	Damage to dental enamel	Headaches and fatigue	Nervous system injury, including numbness and tingling in the feet and hands, and possible problems with balance	Joint pain	Reduced functioning of the spleen (hyposplenism)	Acid reflux and heartburn	
Cellulitis	Red area of skin that tends to expand	Swelling	Tenderness	Pain	Warmth	Fever	Red spots	Blisters	Skin dimpling	
Central nervous system vascular malformations	Arteriovenous malformations. A brain (intracranial) arteriovenous malformation is an abnormal tangle of blood vessels in your brain.	Capillary telangiectasias. Capillary telangiectasias are small dilated blood vessels (capillaries).	Cavernous malformations.. Cavernous malformations are abnormally formed blood vessels in your brain or spinal cord that have the appearance of a mulberry.	Dural arteriovenous fistulas.. Dural arteriovenous fistulas are abnormal connections between arteries and the tough covering over the brain or spinal cord (dura) and a draining vein.	Spinal arteriovenous malformations.. A spinal arteriovenous malformation is an abnormal tangle of blood vessels on, in or near your spinal cord.	Venous malformations.. Venous malformations are abnormally enlarged veins in your brain or spinal cord.	
Cerebral palsy	Variations in muscle tone, such as being either too stiff or too floppy	Stiff muscles and exaggerated reflexes (spasticity)	Stiff muscles with normal reflexes (rigidity)	Lack of muscle coordination (ataxia)	Tremors or involuntary movements 	Slow, writhing movements (athetosis)	Delays in reaching motor skills milestones, such as pushing up on arms, sitting up alone or crawling	Favoring one side of the body, such as reaching with only one hand or dragging a leg while crawling	Difficulty walking, such as walking on toes, a crouched gait, a scissors-like gait with knees crossing or a wide gait	Excessive drooling or problems with swallowing	Difficulty with sucking or eating	Delays in speech development or difficulty speaking	Difficulty with precise motions, such as picking up a crayon or spoon	
Cervical dystonia	Chin toward shoulder	Ear toward shoulder	Chin straight up	Chin straight down	
Cervical spondylosis	Tingling, numbness and weakness in your arms, hands, legs or feet	Lack of coordination and difficulty walking	Loss of bladder or bowel control	
Cervicitis	Large amounts of vaginal discharge that's green, brown or yellow and pus-like and that sometimes has an unpleasant odor	Frequent, painful urination	Pain during intercourse	Vaginal bleeding after intercourse, not associated with a menstrual period	
Chagas disease	Swelling at the infection site	Fever	Fatigue	Rash	Body aches	Eyelid swelling	Headache	Loss of appetite	Nausea, diarrhea or vomiting	Swollen glands	Enlargement of your liver or spleen	
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease	Weakness in your legs, ankles and feet 	Loss of muscle bulk in legs and feet 	High foot arches 	Curled toes (hammertoes) 	Decreased ability to run 	Difficulty lifting your foot at the ankle (footdrop) 	Awkward or higher than normal step (gait) 	Frequent tripping or falling 	Decreased sensation or a loss of feeling in your legs and feet 	
Chemo brain	Being unusually disorganized	Confusion	Difficulty concentrating	Difficulty finding the right word	Difficulty learning new skills	Difficulty multitasking	Fatigue	Feeling of mental fogginess	Short attention span	Short-term memory problems	Taking longer than usual to complete routine tasks	Trouble with verbal memory, such as remembering a conversation	Trouble with visual memory, such as recalling an image or list of words	
Chest pain	Pressure, fullness or tightness in your chest	Crushing or searing pain that radiates to your back, neck, jaw, shoulders and arms — particularly your left arm	Pain that lasts more than a few minutes, gets worse with activity, goes away and comes back or varies in intensity	Shortness of breath	Cold sweats	Dizziness or weakness	Nausea or vomiting	
Costochondritis	Occurs on left side of breastbone 	Affects more than one rib	Worsens when taking deep breaths or coughing	
Chiari malformation	Type I	Type II	
Chickenpox	Fever 	Loss of appetite 	Headache 	Tiredness and a general feeling of being unwell (malaise) 	
Chilblains	Small, itchy red areas on your skin, often on your feet or hands	Possible blistering	Swelling of your skin	Burning sensation on your skin	Changes in skin color from red to dark blue, accompanied by pain	Possible ulceration	
Child abuse	Withdrawal from friends or usual activities	Changes in behavior — such as aggression, anger, hostility or hyperactivity — or changes in school performance	Depression, anxiety or a sudden loss of self-confidence	An apparent lack of supervision	Frequent absences from school or reluctance to ride the school bus	Reluctance to leave school activities, as if he or she doesn't want to go home	Attempts at running away	Rebellious or defiant behavior	Attempts at suicide	
Childhood apraxia of speech	Difficulty moving smoothly from one sound, syllable or word to another	Groping movements with the jaw, lips or tongue to make the correct movement for speech sounds	Vowel distortions, such as attempting to use the correct vowel, but saying it incorrectly	Using the wrong stress in a word, such as pronouncing "banana" as "BUH-nan-uh" instead of "buh-NAN-uh"	Using equal emphasis on all syllables, such as saying "BUH-NAN-UH"	Separation of syllables, such as putting a pause or gap between syllables	Inconsistency, such as making different errors when trying to say the same word a second time	Difficulty imitating simple words	Inconsistent voicing errors, such as saying "down" instead of "town," or "zoo" instead of "Sue"	
Childhood asthma	Frequent, intermittent coughing 	A whistling or wheezing sound when exhaling 	Shortness of breath 	Chest congestion or tightness 	Chest pain, particularly in younger children 	
Childhood disintegrative disorder	Language, including a severe decline in the ability to speak and have a conversation 	Social skills, including significant difficulty relating to and interacting with others 	Play, including a loss of interest in imaginary play and in a variety of games and activities 	Motor skills, including a dramatic decline in the ability to walk, climb, grasp objects and perform other movements 	Bowel or bladder control, including frequent accidents in a child who was previously toilet trained 	
Childhood schizophrenia	Language delays	Late or unusual crawling	Late walking	Other abnormal motor behaviors — for example, rocking or arm flapping	
Chlamydia	Painful urination	Lower abdominal pain	Vaginal discharge in women	Discharge from the penis in men	Painful sexual intercourse in women	Bleeding between periods and after sex in women	Testicular pain in men	
Cholecystitis	Severe pain in your upper right abdomen	Pain that radiates from to your right shoulder or back	Tenderness over your abdomen when it's touched	Nausea	Vomiting	Fever	
Cholera	Diarrhea. Cholera-related diarrhea comes on suddenly and may quickly cause dangerous fluid loss — as much as a quart (about 1 liter) an hour. Diarrhea due to cholera often has a pale, milky appearance that resembles water in which rice has been rinsed (rice-water stool).	Nausea and vomiting. Occurring especially in the early stages of cholera, vomiting may persist for hours at a time.	    Dehydration. Dehydration can develop within hours after the onset of cholera symptoms. Depending on how many body fluids have been lost, dehydration can range from mild to severe. A loss of 10 percent or more of total body weight indicates severe dehydration.    Signs and symptoms of cholera dehydration include irritability, lethargy, sunken eyes, a dry mouth, extreme thirst, dry and shriveled skin that's slow to bounce back when pinched into a fold, little or no urine output, low blood pressure, and an irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia).    	
Cholestasis of pregnancy	Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice)	Nausea	Loss of appetite	
Chondromalacia patella	Walk up or down stairs 	Kneel or squat 	Sit with a bent knee for long periods of time 	
Chronic constipation	Passing fewer than three stools a week	Having lumpy or hard stools	Straining to have bowel movements	Feeling as though there's a blockage in your rectum that prevents bowel movements	Feeling as though you can't completely empty the stool from your rectum	Needing help to empty your rectum, such as using your hands to press on your abdomen and using a finger to remove stool from your rectum	
Chronic cough	A runny or stuffy nose	A feeling of liquid running down the back of your throat	Frequent throat clearing and sore throat	Hoarseness	Wheezing and shortness of breath	Heartburn or a sour taste in your mouth	In rare cases, coughing up blood	
Chronic daily headaches	Chronic migraine	Chronic tension-type headache	New daily persistent headache	Hemicrania continua	
Chronic exertional compartment syndrome	Aching, burning or cramping pain in the affected limb — usually the lower leg 	Tightness in the affected limb 	Numbness or tingling in the affected limb 	Weakness of the affected limb 	Foot drop, in severe cases, if nerves in your legs are affected 	Occasionally, swelling or bulging as a result of a muscle hernia 	
Chronic fatigue syndrome	Fatigue	Loss of memory or concentration	Sore throat	Enlarged lymph nodes in your neck or armpits	Unexplained muscle pain	Pain that moves from one joint to another without swelling or redness	Headache of a new type, pattern or severity	Unrefreshing sleep	Extreme exhaustion lasting more than 24 hours after physical or mental exercise	
Chronic hives (urticaria)	Batches of red or white welts (wheals), usually on the face, trunk, arms or legs	Welts that vary in size, change shape, and appear and fade repeatedly as the reaction runs its course	Itching, which may be severe	Swelling that causes pain or burning (angioedema), especially inside the throat and around the eyes, cheeks, lips, hands, feet and genitals	A tendency for signs and symptoms to flare with triggers such as heat, exercise and stress	A tendency for symptoms to recur frequently and unpredictably, sometimes for months or years	
Chronic kidney disease	Nausea	Vomiting	Loss of appetite	Fatigue and weakness	Sleep problems	Changes in urine output	Decreased mental sharpness	Muscle twitches and cramps	Hiccups	Swelling of feet and ankles	Persistent itching	Chest pain, if fluid builds up around the lining of the heart	Shortness of breath, if fluid builds up in the lungs	High blood pressure (hypertension) that's difficult to control	
COPD	Shortness of breath, especially during physical activities	Wheezing	Chest tightness	Having to clear your throat first thing in the morning, due to excess mucus in your lungs	A chronic cough that produces sputum that may be clear, white, yellow or greenish	Blueness of the lips or fingernail beds (cyanosis)	Frequent respiratory infections	Lack of energy	Unintended weight loss (in later stages)	
Chronic pelvic pain in women	Severe and steady pain 	Pain that comes and goes (intermittent) 	Dull aching 	Sharp pains or cramping 	Pressure or heaviness deep within your pelvis 	
Chronic sinusitis	Drainage of a thick, yellow or greenish discharge from the nose or down the back of the throat 	Nasal obstruction or congestion, causing difficulty breathing through your nose	Pain, tenderness and swelling around your eyes, cheeks, nose or forehead	Reduced sense of smell and taste	
Chronic traumatic encephalopathy	Alzheimer's disease	Parkinson's disease	Frontotemporal dementia	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) — also known as Lou Gehrig's disease	
Churg-Strauss syndrome	Asthma. The primary sign of Churg-Strauss syndrome, asthma develops on average three to nine years before other signs and symptoms appear. In people with Churg-Strauss syndrome who already have asthma, symptoms usually become worse and may require steroids for control. Other people develop what is known as late-onset asthma. Developing asthma, even later in life, doesn't necessarily mean that you have Churg-Strauss syndrome, however. 	Hay fever (allergic rhinitis). This affects the mucous membranes of your nose, causing runny nose, sneezing and itching. 	Sinus pain and inflammation (sinusitis). You may experience facial pain and develop nasal polyps, which are soft, noncancerous (benign) growths that develop as a result of chronic inflammation. 	
Cirrhosis	Fatigue	Bleeding easily	Bruising easily	Itchy skin	Yellow discoloration in the skin and eyes (jaundice)	Fluid accumulation in your abdomen (ascites)	Loss of appetite	Nausea	Swelling in your legs	Weight loss	Confusion, drowsiness and slurred speech (hepatic encephalopathy)	Spider-like blood vessels on your skin	
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease	Personality changes 	Anxiety 	Depression 	Memory loss 	Impaired thinking 	Blurred vision 	Insomnia 	Difficulty speaking 	Difficulty swallowing 	Sudden, jerky movements 	
Claudication	Pain when exercising. You may feel pain or discomfort in your feet, calves, thighs, hips or buttocks, depending on where you might have artery narrowing or damage. Claudication can also occur in your arms, although this is less common.	Intermittent pain. Your pain may come and go as you do less-strenuous activities.	Pain when at rest. As your condition progresses, you may feel pain in your legs even when you're sitting or lying down.	Discolored skin or ulcerations. If blood flow is severely reduced, your toes or fingers may look bluish or feel cold to the touch. You may also develop sores on your lower legs, feet, toes, arms or fingers.	
Cleft lip and cleft palate	A split in the lip and roof of the mouth (palate) that can affect one or both sides of the face 	A split in the lip that can appear as only a small notch in the lip or can extend from the lip through the upper gum and palate into the bottom of the nose 	A split in the roof of the mouth (palate) that doesn't affect the appearance of the face 	
Clubfoot	The top of the foot is usually twisted downward and inward, increasing the arch and turning the heel inward. 	The foot may be turned so severely that it actually looks as if it's upside down. 	The calf muscles in the affected leg are usually underdeveloped. 	The affected foot may be up to 1/2 inch (about 1 centimeter) shorter than the other foot. 	
Cluster headache	Excruciating pain, generally located in or around one eye, but may radiate to other areas of your face, head, neck and shoulders	One-sided pain	Restlessness	Excessive tearing	Redness in your eye on the affected side	Stuffy or runny nasal passage in your nostril on the affected side of your face	Sweaty, pale skin (pallor) on your face	Swelling around your eye on the affected side of your face	Drooping eyelid	
Coarctation of the aorta	Pale skin	Irritability	Heavy sweating	Difficulty breathing	
Cold urticaria	Temporary reddish, itchy welts (hives) on the area of skin that was exposed to cold	A worsening of the reaction as the skin warms	Swelling of hands when holding cold objects	Swelling of lips and throat when consuming cold food or drink	
Cold sore	Tingling and itching. Many people feel an itching, burning or tingling sensation around their lips for a day or two before cold sore blisters erupt. 	Blisters. Small fluid-filled blisters typically break out along the border where the outside edge of the lips meets the skin of the face, although the blisters can also occur around the nose or on the cheeks. 	Oozing and crusting. The small blisters may merge and then burst, leaving shallow open sores that will ooze fluid and then crust over. 	
Common cold	Runny or stuffy nose 	Itchy or sore throat 	Cough 	Congestion 	Slight body aches or a mild headache 	Sneezing 	Watery eyes 	Low-grade fever 	Mild fatigue 	
Colic	Predictable crying episodes. A baby who has colic often cries about the same time every day, usually in the late afternoon or evening. Colic episodes may last from a few minutes to three hours or more on any given day. Your baby may have a bowel movement or pass gas near the end of the colic episode.	Intense or inconsolable crying. Colic crying is intense, sounds distressed and is often high pitched. Your baby's face may flush, and he or she is extremely difficult — if not impossible — to comfort.	Crying that occurs for no apparent reason. It's normal for babies to cry sometimes. But, crying usually means your baby needs something, such as food or a clean diaper. Crying associated with colic occurs with no clear cause.	Posture changes. Curled up legs, clenched fists and tensed abdominal muscles are common during colic episodes.	
Colon polyps	Rectal bleeding. This can be a sign of colon polyps or cancer or other conditions, such as hemorrhoids or minor tears in your anus.	Change in stool color. Blood can show up as red streaks in your stool or make stool appear black. A change in color may also be caused by foods, medications and supplements.	Change in bowel habits. Constipation or diarrhea that lasts longer than a week may indicate the presence of a large colon polyp. But a number of other conditions can also cause changes in bowel habits.	Pain, nausea or vomiting. A large colon polyp can partially obstruct your bowel, leading to crampy abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting.	Iron deficiency anemia. Bleeding from polyps can occur slowly over time, without visible blood in your stool. Chronic bleeding robs your body of the iron needed to produce the substance that allows red blood cells to carry oxygen to your body (hemoglobin). The result is iron deficiency anemia, which can make you feel tired and short of breath.	
Coma	Closed eyes	Depressed brainstem reflexes, such as pupils not responding to light	No responses of limbs, except for reflex movements	No response to painful stimuli, except for reflex movements	Irregular breathing	
Common cold in babies	A congested or runny nose	Nasal discharge that may be clear at first but then usually becomes thicker and turns shades of yellow or green	
Common warts	Small, fleshy, grainy bumps 	Flesh-colored, white, pink or tan 	Rough to the touch 	
Complicated grief	Intense sorrow and pain at the thought of your loved one	Focus on little else but your loved one's death	Extreme focus on reminders of the loved one or excessive avoidance of reminders	Intense and persistent longing or pining for the deceased	Problems accepting the death	Numbness or detachment	Bitterness about your loss	Feeling that life holds no meaning or purpose	Irritability or agitation	Lack of trust in others	Inability to enjoy life or think back on positive experiences with your loved one	
Compulsive gambling	Gaining a thrill from taking big gambling risks 	Taking increasingly bigger gambling risks 	Preoccupation with gambling 	Reliving past gambling experiences 	Gambling as a way to escape problems or feelings of helplessness, guilt or depression 	Taking time from work or family life to gamble 	Concealing or lying about gambling 	Feeling guilt or remorse after gambling 	Borrowing money or stealing to gamble 	Failed efforts to cut back on gambling 	
Compulsive sexual behavior	Your sexual impulses are intense and feel as if they're beyond your control	Even though you feel driven to do certain sexual behaviors, you may or may not find the activity a source of pleasure or satisfaction	You use compulsive sexual behavior as an escape from other problems, such as loneliness, depression, anxiety or stress	You continue to engage in sexual behaviors that have serious consequences, such as the potential for getting or giving someone else a sexually transmitted infection, the loss of important relationships, trouble at work, or legal problems	You have trouble establishing and maintaining emotional closeness, even if you're married or in a committed relationship	
Concussion	Headache or a feeling of pressure in the head	Temporary loss of consciousness	Confusion or feeling as if in a fog	Amnesia surrounding the traumatic event	Dizziness or "seeing stars"	Ringing in the ears	Nausea	Vomiting	Slurred speech	Delayed response to questions	Appearing dazed	Fatigue	
Congenital adrenal hyperplasia	Classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia. This more severe form of the disease is usually detected in infancy or early childhood.	Nonclassic congenital adrenal hyperplasia. This milder form usually becomes evident in late childhood or early adulthood.	
Congenital heart defects in children	Pale gray or blue skin color (cyanosis)	Rapid breathing	Flared nostrils	Grunting when breathing	Swelling in the legs, abdomen or areas around the eyes	Shortness of breath during feedings, leading to poor weight gain	
Congenital heart disease in adults	Abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias)	A bluish tint to the skin (cyanosis)	Shortness of breath	Tiring quickly upon exertion	Dizziness or fainting	Swelling of body tissue or organs (edema)	
Conjoined twins	Joined at the chest. One of the most common of conjoined twins, thoracopagus twins are joined at the chest. They often have a shared heart and may also share one liver and upper intestine. 	Joined near the bellybutton. Omphalopagus twins are joined near the bellybutton. Many omphalopagus twins share the liver, and some share the lower part of the small intestine (ileum) and colon. They generally do not, however, share a heart. 	Joined at the base of the spine. Pygopagus twins are joined at the base of the spine and commonly face away from one another. Some pygopagus twins share the lower gastrointestinal tract, and a few share the genital and urinary organs. 	Joined at the pelvis. Ischiopagus twins are joined at the pelvis. Many ischiopagus twins share the lower gastrointestinal tract, as well as the liver and genital and urinary tract organs. Each twin may have two legs or in some cases, one pair of legs and even a fused leg, though that's uncommon. 	Joined at the head. Craniopagus twins are joined at the head. Craniopagus twins share a portion of the skull, and possibly brain tissue. This sharing may involve the cerebral cortex — the part of the brain that plays a central role in memory, language and perception. 	
Constipation in children	Less than three bowel movements a week	Bowel movements that are hard, dry and difficult to pass	Pain while having a bowel movement	Abdominal pain	Nausea	Traces of liquid or clay-like stool in your child's underwear — a sign that stool is backed up in the rectum	Blood on the surface of hard stool	
Contact dermatitis	Red rash or bumps	Itching, which may be severe	Dry, cracked, scaly skin, if your condition is chronic	Blisters, draining fluid and crusting, if your reaction is severe	Swelling, burning or tenderness	
Convergence insufficiency	Eyestrain	Headaches	Difficulty reading — words blur or seem to move on the page	Double vision	Difficulty concentrating	Squinting or closing one eye	
Conversion disorder	Weakness or paralysis	Abnormal movement, such as tremors or difficulty walking	Loss of balance	Difficulty swallowing or "a lump in the throat"	Seizures or convulsions	Episode of unresponsiveness	
Coronary artery disease	Chest pain (angina). You may feel pressure or tightness in your chest, as if someone were standing on your chest. The pain, referred to as angina, is usually triggered by physical or emotional stress. It typically goes away within minutes after stopping the stressful activity. In some people, especially women, this pain may be fleeting or sharp and felt in the abdomen, back or arm.	Shortness of breath. If your heart can't pump enough blood to meet your body's needs, you may develop shortness of breath or extreme fatigue with exertion.	Heart attack. A completely blocked coronary artery may cause a heart attack. The classic signs and symptoms of a heart attack include crushing pressure in your chest and pain in your shoulder or arm, sometimes with shortness of breath and sweating. Women are somewhat more likely than men are to experience less typical signs and symptoms of a heart attack, such as nausea and back or jaw pain. Sometimes a heart attack occurs without any apparent signs or symptoms.	
Cough headaches	Begin suddenly with and just after coughing or other types of straining	Typically last a few seconds to a few minutes — some can last up to two hours	Cause sharp, stabbing or splitting pain	Usually affect both sides of your head and may be worse in the back of your head	May be followed by a dull, aching pain for hours	
Cradle cap	Patchy scaling or thick crusts on the scalp	Greasy skin covered with flaky white or yellow scales	Skin flakes	Possibly mild redness	
Craniosynostosis	A misshapen skull, with the shape depending on which of the cranial sutures are affected 	An abnormal feeling or disappearing "soft spot" (fontanel) on your baby's skull 	Slow or no growth of the head as your baby grows 	Development of a raised, hard ridge along affected sutures 	Increased pressure within the skull (intracranial pressure) 	
Crohn's disease	Diarrhea. Diarrhea is a common problem for people with Crohn's disease. Intensified intestinal cramping also can contribute to loose stools.	Fever and fatigue. Many people with Crohn's disease experience a low-grade fever, likely due to inflammation or infection. You may also feel tired or have low energy.	Abdominal pain and cramping. Inflammation and ulceration can affect the normal movement of contents through your digestive tract and may lead to pain and cramping. You may experience anything from slight discomfort to severe pain, including nausea and vomiting.	Blood in your stool. You might notice bright red blood in the toilet bowl or darker blood mixed with your stool. You can also have bleeding you don't see (occult blood).	Mouth sores. You may have ulcers in your mouth similar to canker sores.	Reduced appetite and weight loss. Abdominal pain and cramping and the inflammatory reaction in the wall of your bowel can affect both your appetite and your ability to digest and absorb food.	Perianal disease. You might have pain or drainage near or around the anus due to inflammation from a tunnel into the skin (fistula).	
Croup	Makes noisy, high-pitched breathing sounds (stridor) both when inhaling and exhaling 	Begins drooling or has difficulty swallowing 	Seems anxious, agitated or fatigued 	Breathes at a faster rate than usual 	Struggles to breathe 	Develops blue or grayish skin around the nose, mouth or fingernails (cyanosis) 	
Cryptosporidium infection	Watery diarrhea	Dehydration	Lack of appetite	Weight loss	Stomach cramps or pain	Fever	Nausea	Vomiting	
Cushing syndrome	Weight gain and fatty tissue deposits, particularly around the midsection and upper back, in the face (moon face), and between the shoulders (buffalo hump)	Pink or purple stretch marks (striae) on the skin of the abdomen, thighs, breasts and arms	Thinning, fragile skin that bruises easily	Slow healing of cuts, insect bites and infections	Acne	
Cyclic vomiting syndrome	Severe vomiting that occurs several times per hour and lasts less than one week 	Three or more separate episodes of vomiting with no apparent cause in the past year 	
Cyclospora infection	Frequent, watery diarrhea	Bouts of diarrhea alternating with bouts of constipation	Loss of appetite and weight loss	Bloating, flatulence and burping	Stomach cramps	Nausea and vomiting	Muscle aches	Fever	Fatigue — this symptom may last long after the active infection has gotten better	General feeling of unwellness (malaise)	
Cyclothymia	An exaggerated feeling of happiness or well-being (euphoria)	Extreme optimism	Inflated self-esteem	Poor judgment	Rapid speech	Racing thoughts	Aggressive or hostile behavior	Being inconsiderate of others	Agitation	Excessive physical activity	Risky behavior	Spending sprees	Increased drive to perform or achieve goals	Increased sexual drive	Decreased need for sleep	Tendency to be easily distracted	Inability to concentrate	
Cystic fibrosis	A persistent cough that produces thick spit (sputum) and mucus 	Wheezing 	Breathlessness 	A decreased ability to exercise 	Repeated lung infections 	Inflamed nasal passages or a stuffy nose 	
Cystitis	A strong, persistent urge to urinate	A burning sensation when urinating	Passing frequent, small amounts of urine	Blood in the urine (hematuria)	Passing cloudy or strong-smelling urine	Discomfort in the pelvic area	A feeling of pressure in the lower abdomen	Low-grade fever	
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection	Yellow skin and eyes (jaundice)	Purple skin splotches or a rash or both	Small size at birth (or low birth weight)	Enlarged spleen	Enlarged and poorly functioning liver	Pneumonia	Seizures	
Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS)	A breast lump	Bloody nipple discharge	
De Quervain's tenosynovitis	Pain near the base of your thumb	Swelling near the base of your thumb	Difficulty moving your thumb and wrist when you're doing activities that involve grasping or pinching	A "sticking" or "stop-and-go" sensation in your thumb when trying to move it	
Dry eyes	A stinging, burning or scratchy sensation in your eyes 	Stringy mucus in or around your eyes 	Increased eye irritation from smoke or wind 	Eye fatigue 	Sensitivity to light 	Eye redness 	A sensation of having something in your eyes 	Difficulty wearing contact lenses 	Periods of excessive tearing 	Blurred vision, often worsening at the end of the day or after focusing for a prolonged period 	
Deep vein thrombosis	Swelling in the affected leg. Rarely, there may be swelling in both legs.	Pain in your leg. The pain often starts in your calf and can feel like cramping or a soreness.	
Dehydration	Dry, sticky mouth	Sleepiness or tiredness — children are likely to be less active than usual	Thirst	Decreased urine output	No wet diapers for three hours for infants	Few or no tears when crying	Dry skin	Headache	Constipation	Dizziness or lightheadedness	
Delayed ejaculation	Lifelong vs. acquired. With lifelong delayed ejaculation, the problem is present from the time a male reaches sexual maturity. Acquired delayed ejaculation occurs after a period of normal sexual functioning.	Generalized vs. situational. Generalized delayed ejaculation isn't limited to certain sex partners or certain kinds of stimulation. Situational delayed ejaculation occurs only under certain circumstances.	
Delirium	An inability to stay focused on a topic or to change topics 	Wandering attention 	Getting stuck on an idea rather than responding to questions or conversation 	Being easily distracted by unimportant things 	
Dementia	Memory loss	Difficulty communicating or finding words	Difficulty with complex tasks	Difficulty with planning and organizing	Difficulty with coordination and motor functions	Problems with disorientation, such as getting lost	
Dengue fever	Fever, as high as 106 F (41 C)	Headaches	Muscle, bone and joint pain	Pain behind your eyes	
Depersonalization-derealization disorder	Feelings that you're an outside observer of your thoughts, feelings, your body or parts of your body, perhaps as if you were floating in air above yourself	Feeling like a robot or that you're not in control of your speech or movements	The sense that your body, legs or arms appear distorted, enlarged or shrunken, or that your head is wrapped in cotton	Emotional or physical numbness of your senses or responses to the world around you	A sense that your memories lack emotion, and that they may or may not be your own memories	
Depression	Feelings of sadness, emptiness or unhappiness	Angry outbursts, irritability or frustration, even over small matters	Loss of interest or pleasure in normal activities, such as sex	Sleep disturbances, including insomnia or sleeping too much	Tiredness and lack of energy, so that even small tasks take extra effort	Changes in appetite — often reduced appetite and weight loss, but increased cravings for food and weight gain in some people	Anxiety, agitation or restlessness — for example, excessive worrying, pacing, hand-wringing or an inability to sit still	Slowed thinking, speaking or body movements	Feelings of worthlessness or guilt, fixating on past failures or blaming yourself for things that are not your responsibility	Trouble thinking, concentrating, making decisions and remembering things	Frequent thoughts of death, suicidal thoughts, suicide attempts or suicide	Unexplained physical problems, such as back pain or headaches	
Dermatitis	Atopic dermatitis (eczema). Usually beginning in infancy, this red, itchy rash most commonly occurs where the skin flexes — inside the elbows, behind the knees and the front of the neck. When scratched, the rash can leak fluid and crust over. People with atopic dermatitis may experience improvement and then flare-ups.	Contact dermatitis. This rash occurs on areas of the body that have come into contact with substances that either irritate the skin or cause an allergic reaction, such as poison ivy. The red rash may burn, sting or itch. Blisters may develop.	Seborrheic dermatitis. This condition causes scaly patches, red skin and stubborn dandruff. It usually affects oily areas of the body, such as the face, upper chest and back. It can be a long-term condition with periods of remission and flare-ups. In infants, this disorder is known as cradle cap.	
Dermatographia	Raised red lines 	Swelling 	Inflammation 	Hive-like welts 	Itching 	
Dermatomyositis	Skin changes. A violet-colored or dusky red rash develops, most commonly on your face and eyelids and on areas around your nails, knuckles, elbows, knees, chest and back. The rash, which can be patchy with bluish-purple discolorations, is often the first sign of dermatomyositis.	Muscle weakness. Progressive muscle weakness involves the muscles closest to the trunk, such as those in your hips, thighs, shoulders, upper arms and neck. The weakness affects both the left and right sides of your body, and tends to gradually worsen.	
Deviated septum	Obstruction of one or both nostrils. This obstruction can make it difficult to breathe through the nostril or nostrils. This may be more noticeable when you have a cold (upper respiratory tract infection) or allergies that can cause your nasal passages to swell and narrow.	Nosebleeds. The surface of your nasal septum may become dry, increasing your risk of nosebleeds.	Facial pain. Though there is some debate about the possible nasal causes of facial pain, a severe deviated septum that impacts the inside nasal wall, when on the same side as one-sided facial pain, is sometimes considered a possible cause.	Noisy breathing during sleep. This can occur in infants and young children with a deviated septum or with swelling of the intranasal tissues.	Awareness of the nasal cycle. It is normal for the nose to alternate being obstructed on one side, then changing to being obstructed on the other. This is called the nasal cycle. The nasal cycle is a normal phenomenon, but being aware of the nasal cycle is unusual and can be an indication that there is an abnormal amount of nasal obstruction.	Preference for sleeping on a particular side. Some people may prefer to sleep on a particular side in order to optimize breathing through the nose at night. This can be due to a deviated septum that narrows one nasal passage.	
Diabetes	Increased thirst	Frequent urination	Extreme hunger	Unexplained weight loss	Presence of ketones in the urine (ketones are a byproduct of the breakdown of muscle and fat that happens when there's not enough available insulin)	Fatigue	Irritability	Blurred vision	Slow-healing sores	Frequent infections, such as gums or skin infections and vaginal infections	
Diabetes insipidus	Extreme thirst 	Excretion of an excessive amount of diluted urine 	
Diabetic coma	Increased thirst 	Frequent urination 	Fatigue 	Nausea and vomiting 	Shortness of breath	Stomach pain	Fruity breath odor	A very dry mouth 	A rapid heartbeat 	
Diabetic hyperosmolar syndrome	High blood sugar level	Excessive thirst	Dry mouth	Increased urination 	Warm, dry skin with no sweating	Fever	Sleepiness	Confusion	Hallucinations	Vision loss	Weakness on one side of the body	Convulsions 	Coma 	
Diabetic hypoglycemia	Shakiness	Dizziness	Sweating	Hunger	Irritability or moodiness	Anxiety or nervousness	Headache	
Diabetic ketoacidosis	Excessive thirst	Frequent urination	Nausea and vomiting	Abdominal pain	Weakness or fatigue	Shortness of breath	Fruity-scented breath	Confusion	
Diabetic neuropathy	Numbness or reduced ability to feel pain or temperature changes	A tingling or burning sensation	Sharp pains or cramps	Increased sensitivity to touch — for some people, even the weight of a bed sheet can be agonizing	Muscle weakness	Loss of reflexes, especially in the ankle	Loss of balance and coordination	Serious foot problems, such as ulcers, infections, deformities, and bone and joint pain	
Diabetic retinopathy	Spots or dark strings floating in your vision (floaters) 	Blurred vision 	Fluctuating vision 	Dark or empty areas in your vision 	Vision loss 	Difficulty with color perception 	
Diaper rash	Skin signs. Diaper rash is marked by red, puffy and tender-looking skin in the diaper region — buttocks, thighs and genitals.	Changes in your baby's disposition. You may notice your baby seems more uncomfortable than usual, especially during diaper changes. A baby with a diaper rash often fusses or cries when the diaper area is washed or touched.	
Diarrhea	Frequent, loose, watery stools 	Abdominal cramps 	Abdominal pain 	Fever 	Blood in the stool 	Bloating 	
Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH)	Stiffness. Stiffness may be most noticeable in the morning. 	Pain. You may feel pain in your back or in other affected areas, such as your shoulder, elbow, knee or heel. 	Loss of range of motion. You may notice this most when stretching side to side. 	Difficulty swallowing or a hoarse voice. You may experience these if you have DISH in your neck. 	
DiGeorge syndrome	Bluish skin due to poor circulation of oxygen-rich blood (cyanosis) as a result of a heart defect	Breathing problems	Twitching or spasms around the mouth, hands, arms or throat	Frequent infections	Certain facial features, such as an underdeveloped chin, low-set ears, wide-set eyes or a narrow groove in the upper lip	A gap in the roof of the mouth (cleft palate) or other problems with the palate	Delayed growth	Difficulty feeding and gastrointestinal problems	Failure to gain weight	Poor muscle tone	Delayed development, such as delays in rolling over, sitting up or other infant milestones	Delayed speech development	Learning delays or difficulties and behavior problems	
Dilated cardiomyopathy	Fatigue	Shortness of breath (dyspnea) when you're active or lying down	Reduced ability to exercise	Swelling (edema) in your legs, ankles and feet	Swelling of your abdomen (ascites)	
Diphtheria	A thick, gray membrane covering your throat and tonsils	A sore throat and hoarseness	Swollen glands (enlarged lymph nodes) in your neck	Difficulty breathing or rapid breathing	Nasal discharge	Fever and chills	Malaise	
Dislocated elbow	Extreme pain	Obvious distortion of the joint	
Dislocated shoulder	A visibly deformed or out-of-place shoulder	Swelling or bruising	Intense pain	Inability to move the joint	
Dislocation	Visibly deformed or out of place	Swollen or discolored	Intensely painful	Immovable	
Dissociative disorders	Memory loss (amnesia) of certain time periods, events and people	Mental health problems, such as depression, anxiety, and suicidal thoughts and attempts	A sense of being detached from yourself 	A perception of the people and things around you as distorted and unreal	A blurred sense of identity	Significant stress or problems in your relationships, work or other important areas of your life	
Diverticulitis	Pain, which may be constant and persist for several days. Pain is usually felt in the lower left side of the abdomen, but may occur on the right, especially in people of Asian descent.	Nausea and vomiting.	Fever.	Abdominal tenderness.	Constipation or, less commonly, diarrhea.	
Dizziness	The false sense of motion or spinning (vertigo) 	Lightheadedness or the feeling of near fainting 	Loss of balance or unsteadiness (disequilibrium) 	Other sensations such as floating, swimming or heavy-headedness 	
Double uterus	Unusual pressure or cramping pain before or during a menstrual period 	Abnormal bleeding during a period, such as blood flow despite the use of a tampon 	
Down syndrome	Flattened facial features	Small head	Short neck	Protruding tongue	Upward slanting eyes, unusual for the child's ethnic group	Unusually shaped or small ears	Poor muscle tone	Broad, short hands with a single crease in the palm	Relatively short fingers and small hands and feet	Excessive flexibility	Tiny white spots on the colored part (iris) of the eye called Brushfield spots	Short height	
Dressler's syndrome	Chest pain	Fever	
Drug addiction	Feeling that you have to use the drug regularly — this can be daily or even several times a day	Having intense urges for the drug	Over time, needing more of the drug to get the same effect	Making certain that you maintain a supply of the drug	Spending money on the drug, even though you can't afford it	Not meeting obligations and work responsibilities, or cutting back on social or recreational activities because of drug use	Doing things to get the drug that you normally wouldn't do, such as stealing	Driving or doing other risky activities when you're under the influence of the drug	Focusing more and more time and energy on getting and using the drug	Failing in your attempts to stop using the drug	Experiencing withdrawal symptoms when you attempt to stop taking the drug	
Drug allergy	Skin rash	Hives	Itching	Fever	Swelling	Shortness of breath	Wheezing	Runny nose	Itchy, watery eyes	
Dry mouth	Dryness in your mouth or throat	Saliva that seems thick and stringy	Bad breath	Difficulty chewing, speaking and swallowing	A changed sense of taste	Problems wearing dentures	More frequent tooth decay	Gum irritation and gum disease	
Dry skin	A feeling of skin tightness, especially after showering, bathing or swimming	Skin that feels and looks rough	Itching (pruritus)	Slight to severe flaking, scaling or peeling	Fine lines or cracks	Gray, ashy skin in people with dark skin	Redness	Deep cracks that may bleed	
Dry socket	Severe pain within a few days after a tooth extraction 	Partial or total loss of the blood clot at the tooth extraction site, which you may notice as an empty-looking (dry) socket 	Visible bone in the socket 	Pain that radiates from the socket to your ear, eye, temple or neck on the same side of your face as the extraction 	Bad breath or a foul odor coming from your mouth 	Unpleasant taste in your mouth 	Swollen lymph nodes around your jaw or neck 	Slight fever 	
Dumping syndrome	Nausea	Vomiting	Abdominal cramps	Diarrhea	Feeling of fullness	
Dust mite allergy	Sneezing 	Runny nose 	Itchy, red or watery eyes 	Nasal congestion 	Itchy nose, roof of mouth or throat 	Postnasal drip 	Cough 	Facial pressure and pain 	Swollen, blue-colored skin under your eyes 	In a child, frequent upward rubbing of the nose 	
Dwarfism	An average-size trunk	Short arms and legs, with particularly short upper arms and upper legs	Short fingers, often with a wide separation between the middle and ring fingers	Limited mobility at the elbows	A disproportionately large head, with a prominent forehead and a flattened bridge of the nose	Progressive development of bowed legs	Progressive development of swayed lower back	An adult height around 4 feet (122 cm)	
Dysarthria	Slurred speech	Slow rate of speech	Inability to speak louder than a whisper	Rapid rate of speech that is difficult to understand	Nasal, raspy or strained voice quality	Uneven or abnormal rhythm of speech	Uneven volume of speech	Monotone speech	Difficulty moving your tongue or facial muscles	Drooling	
Dyslexia	Late talking	Learning new words slowly	Difficulty learning nursery rhymes	Difficulty playing rhyming games	
Dysphagia	Having pain while swallowing (odynophagia)	Being unable to swallow	Having the sensation of food getting stuck in your throat or chest or behind your breastbone (sternum)	Drooling	Being hoarse	Bringing food back up (regurgitation)	Having frequent heartburn	Having food or stomach acid back up into your throat	Unexpectedly losing weight	Coughing or gagging when swallowing	Having to cut food into smaller pieces or avoiding certain foods because of trouble swallowing	
Dysthymia	Loss of interest in daily activities	Sadness or feeling down	Hopelessness	Tiredness and lack of energy	Low self-esteem, self-criticism or feeling incapable	Trouble concentrating and trouble making decisions	Irritability or excessive anger	Decreased activity, effectiveness and productivity	Avoidance of social activities	Feelings of guilt and worries over the past	Poor appetite or overeating	Sleep problems	
Dystonia	Include involuntary muscle contractions that cause repetitive movements or distorted postures	Begin in a single area, such as your foot, hand or neck	May occur during a specific action, such as handwriting	May worsen with stress, fatigue or anxiety	May become more noticeable over time	
E. coli	Diarrhea, which may range from mild and watery to severe and bloody	Abdominal cramping, pain or tenderness	Nausea and vomiting, in some people	
Ear infection (middle ear)	Ear pain, especially when lying down 	Tugging or pulling at an ear 	Difficulty sleeping 	Crying more than usual 	Acting more irritable than usual 	Difficulty hearing or responding to sounds 	Loss of balance 	Fever of 100 F (38 C) or higher 	Drainage of fluid from the ear 	Headache 	Loss of appetite 	
Earwax blockage	Earache 	Feeling of fullness in the affected ear 	Ear noise (tinnitus) 	Decreased hearing in the affected ear 	
Eating disorders	Skipping meals or making excuses for not eating	Adopting an overly restrictive vegetarian diet	Excessive focus on healthy eating	Making own meals rather than eating what the family eats	Withdrawing from normal social activities	Persistent worry or complaining about being fat and talk of losing weight	Frequent checking in the mirror for perceived flaws	Repeatedly eating large amounts of sweets or high-fat foods	Use of dietary supplements, laxatives or herbal products for weight loss	Excessive exercise	Calluses on the knuckles from inducing vomiting	Problems with loss of tooth enamel that may be a sign of repeated vomiting	Leaving during meals to use the toilet	Eating much more food in a meal or snack than is considered normal	Expressing depression, disgust, shame or guilt about eating habits	Eating in secret	
Ebola virus and Marburg virus	Fever	Severe headache	Joint and muscle aches	Chills	Weakness	
Ebstein's anomaly	Shortness of breath, especially with exertion	Fatigue	Heart palpitations or abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias)	A bluish discoloration of the lips and skin caused by low oxygen (cyanosis)	
Ectopic pregnancy	Severe abdominal or pelvic pain accompanied by vaginal bleeding	Extreme lightheadedness or fainting	Shoulder pain	
Ectropion	Irritation. Stagnant tears or dryness can irritate your eyes, causing a burning sensation and redness in your eyelids and the whites of your eyes. The stagnant tears and dryness can also irritate the surface of the cornea, making you sensitive to light.	Excessive tearing. Without proper drainage, your tears may pool and constantly flow over your eyelids. Many people with ectropion complain of watery or weepy eyes.	Excessive dryness. Ectropion can cause your eyes to feel dry, gritty and sandy.	
Erectile dysfunction	Trouble getting an erection	Trouble keeping an erection	Reduced sexual desire	
Edema	Swelling or puffiness of the tissue directly under your skin	Stretched or shiny skin	Skin that retains a dimple after being pressed for several seconds	Increased abdominal size	
Egg allergy	Skin inflammation or hives — the most common egg allergy reaction	Nasal congestion, runny nose and sneezing (allergic rhinitis)	Digestive symptoms, such as cramps, nausea and vomiting	Asthma signs and symptoms such as coughing, wheezing, chest tightness or shortness of breath	
Ehlers-Danlos syndrome	Overly flexible joints. Because the connective tissue that holds joints together is looser, your joints can move far past the normal range of motion. Small joints are affected more than large joints. You might also be able to touch the tip of your nose with your tongue.	Stretchy skin. Weakened connective tissue allows your skin to stretch much more than usual. You may be able to pull a pinch of skin up away from your flesh, but it will snap right back into place when you let go. Your skin might also feel exceptionally soft and velvety.	Fragile skin. Damaged skin often doesn't heal well. For example, the stitches used to close a wound often will tear out and leave a gaping scar. These scars may look thin and crinkly.	Fatty lumps at pressure points. These small, harmless growths can occur around the knees or elbows and may show up on X-rays.	
Ehrlichiosis	Mild fever	Headache	Chills	Muscle aches	Nausea	Vomiting	Diarrhea	Joint pain 	Confusion	Rash	Cough	
Eisenmenger syndrome	Bluish or grayish skin color (cyanosis)	Large, rounded fingernails or toenails (clubbing)	Easily tiring and shortness of breath with activity	Shortness of breath while at rest	Chest pain or tightness	Skipped or racing heartbeats (palpitations)	Fainting (syncope)	Dizziness	Numbness or tingling in the fingers or toes	Headaches	
Emphysema	You're so short of breath, you can't climb stairs	Your lips or fingernails turn blue or gray with exertion	You're not mentally alert	
Encephalitis	Headache	Fever	Aches in muscles or joints	Fatigue or weakness	
Encopresis	Leakage of stool or liquid stool on your child's underwear. If the amount of leakage is large, you may misinterpret it as diarrhea.	Constipation with dry, hard stool.	Passage of large stool that clogs or almost clogs the toilet.	Avoidance of bowel movements.	Long periods of time between bowel movements, possibly as long as a week.	Lack of appetite.	Abdominal pain.	Repeated urinary tract infections.	
Endocarditis	Fever and chills	A new or changed heart murmur — heart sounds made by blood rushing through your heart	Fatigue	Aching joints and muscles	Night sweats	Shortness of breath	Paleness	Persistent cough	Swelling in your feet, legs or abdomen	Unexplained weight loss	Blood in your urine (either visible or found in a doctor's viewing of your urine under a microscope)	Tenderness in your spleen — an infection-fighting abdominal organ on your left side, just below your rib cage	Osler's nodes — red, tender spots under the skin of your fingers	Petechiae (puh-TEE-key-ee) — tiny purple or red spots on the skin, whites of your eyes or inside your mouth	
Endometrial cancer	Vaginal bleeding after menopause	Bleeding between periods	An abnormal, watery or blood-tinged discharge from your vagina	Pelvic pain	Pain during intercourse	
Endometriosis	Painful periods (dysmenorrhea). Pelvic pain and cramping may begin before and extend several days into your period and may include lower back and abdominal pain. 	Pain with intercourse. Pain during or after sex is common with endometriosis. 	Pain with bowel movements or urination. You're most likely to experience these symptoms during your period. 	Excessive bleeding. You may experience occasional heavy periods (menorrhagia) or bleeding between periods (menometrorrhagia). 	Infertility. Endometriosis is first diagnosed in some women who are seeking treatment for infertility. 	Other symptoms. You may also experience fatigue, diarrhea, constipation, bloating or nausea, especially during menstrual periods. 	
Enlarged heart	Shortness of breath	Abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia)	Swelling (edema)	
Enlarged liver	Abdominal pain	Fatigue	Nausea and vomiting	Yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes (jaundice)	
Enlarged spleen	No symptoms in some cases 	Pain or fullness in the left upper abdomen that may spread to the left shoulder 	Feeling full without eating or after eating only a small amount — this can occur when an enlarged spleen presses on your stomach 	Anemia 	Fatigue 	Frequent infections 	Easy bleeding 	
Entropion	The feeling that there's something in your eye	Redness of the white part of your eye	Eye irritation or pain	Sensitivity to light and wind	Watery eyes (excessive tearing)	Mucous discharge and eyelid crusting	Decreased vision	
Eosinophilic esophagitis	Difficulty swallowing (dysphagia)	Food impaction	Chest pain that is often centrally located and does not respond to antacids	Persistent heartburn	Upper abdominal pain	No response to gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) medication	Backflow of undigested food (regurgitation)	
Epidermoid (sebaceous) cysts	A small, round bump under the skin, usually on the face, trunk or neck 	A tiny blackhead plugging the central opening of the cyst 	A thick, yellow, foul-smelling material that sometimes drains from the cyst 	Redness, swelling and tenderness in the area, if inflamed or infected 	
Epidermolysis bullosa	Fluid-filled blisters on the skin, especially on the hands and feet due to friction	Deformity or loss of fingernails and toenails	Internal blistering, including on the vocal cords, esophagus and upper airway	Skin thickening on the palms and the soles of the feet	Scalp blistering, scarring and hair loss (scarring alopecia)	Thin-appearing skin (atrophic scarring)	Tiny white skin bumps or pimples (milia)	Dental problems, such as tooth decay from poorly formed enamel	Difficulty swallowing (dysphagia)	
Epididymitis	A swollen, red or warm scrotum	Testicle pain and tenderness, usually on one side	Painful urination or an urgent or frequent need to urinate	Discharge from the penis	Painful intercourse or ejaculation	A lump on the testicle	Enlarged lymph nodes in the groin	Pain or discomfort in the lower abdomen or pelvic area	Blood in the semen	Less commonly, fever	
Epiglottitis	Fever 	Severe sore throat 	Abnormal, high-pitched sound when breathing in (stridor) 	Difficult and painful swallowing 	Drooling 	Anxious, restless behavior 	Greater comfort when sitting up or leaning forward 	
Esophageal cancer	Difficulty swallowing (dysphagia)	Weight loss without trying	Chest pain, pressure or burning	Worsening indigestion or heartburn	Coughing or hoarseness	
Esophageal spasms	Squeezing pain in your chest, often intense, which you might mistake for heart pain (angina) 	Difficulty swallowing (dysphagia) 	The feeling that an object is stuck in your throat (globus) 	The return of food and liquids back up your esophagus (regurgitation) 	
Esophageal varices	Vomiting blood 	Black, tarry or bloody stools 	Shock (in severe case) 	
Esophagitis	Difficult swallowing	Painful swallowing	Chest pain, particularly behind the breastbone, that occurs with eating	Swallowed food becoming stuck in the esophagus (food impaction)	Heartburn	Acid regurgitation	
Essential thrombocythemia	Headache	Dizziness or lightheadedness	Chest pain	Weakness	Fainting	Temporary vision changes	Numbness or tingling of the hands and feet	Redness, throbbing and burning pain in the hands and feet (erythromelalgia)	Mildly enlarged spleen	
Essential tremor	Begin gradually	Worsen with movement	Usually occur in the hands first, affecting one hand or both hands	Can include a "yes-yes" or "no-no" motion of the head	May be aggravated by emotional stress, fatigue, caffeine or extremes of temperature	
Exercise headaches	Are usually described as throbbing	Occur during or after strenuous exercise	Affect both sides of the head in most cases	
Exercise-induced asthma	Coughing	Wheezing	Shortness of breath	Chest tightness or pain	Fatigue during exercise	Poorer than expected athletic performance	Feeling out of shape even when you're in good physical shape	Avoidance of activity (a sign primarily among young children)	
Eye floaters	Spots in your vision that appear as dark specks or knobby, transparent strings of floating material	Spots that move when you move your eyes, so when you try to look at them, they move quickly out of your visual field	Spots that are most noticeable when you look at a plain bright background, such as a blue sky or a white wall	Spots that eventually settle down and drift out of the line of vision	
Eye melanoma	A growing dark spot on the iris 	A sensation of flashing lights 	A change in the shape of the dark circle (pupil) at the center of your eye 	Poor or blurry vision in one eye 	Loss of peripheral vision 	Sensation of flashes and specs of dust in your vision (floaters)	
Eyestrain	Sore, tired, burning or itching eyes	Watery eyes	Dry eyes	Blurred or double vision	Headache	Sore neck	Sore back	Shoulder pain	Increased sensitivity to light	Difficulty focusing	
Factitious disorder	Clever and convincing medical problems	Frequent hospitalizations	Vague or inconsistent symptoms	Conditions that get worse for no apparent reason	Conditions that don't respond as expected to standard therapies	Eagerness to have frequent testing or risky operations	Extensive knowledge of medical terms and diseases	Seeking treatment from many different doctors or hospitals, which may include using a fake name	Having few visitors when hospitalized	Reluctance to allow health professionals to talk to family or friends or to other health care providers	Arguing with hospital staff	Frequent requests for pain relievers or other medications	
Factor V Leiden	Pain	Significant swelling	Redness	Warmth	
Familial adenomatous polyposis	Duodenal polyps. These polyps grow in the upper part of your small intestine and may become cancerous. But with careful monitoring, duodenal polyps can often be detected and removed before cancer develops.	Periampullary polyps. These polyps arise in the duodenum, close to where the bile and pancreas ducts enter it (ampulla). Periampullary polyps also may become cancerous but can often be detected and removed before cancer develops.	Desmoids. These noncancerous masses can arise anywhere in the body, but often develop in the stomach area (abdomen). Desmoids can cause serious problems if they grow into nerves or blood vessels or exert pressure on other organs in your body.	Other cancers. Rarely, familial adenomatous polyposis can cause cancer to develop in your thyroid gland, central nervous system, adrenal glands, liver or other organs.	Noncancerous skin tumors.	Noncancerous bone tumors. 	Pigment changes in the retina of your eye.	Dental abnormalities.	
Familial Mediterranean fever	Fever 	Abdominal pain 	Chest pain 	Achy, swollen joints 	Constipation followed by diarrhea 	A red rash on your legs, especially below your knees 	Muscle aches 	A swollen, tender scrotum 	
Farsightedness	Nearby objects may appear blurry 	You need to squint to see clearly 	You have eyestrain, including burning eyes, and aching in or around the eyes 	You experience general eye discomfort or a headache after a prolonged interval of doing close tasks, such as reading, writing, computer work or drawing 	
Febrile seizure	Have a fever higher than 100.4 F (38.0 C)	Lose consciousness	Shake or jerk arms and legs	
Fecal incontinence	Can't control the passage of gas or stools, which may be liquid or solid, from their bowels	May not be able to make it to the toilet in time	
Female infertility	If you're in your early 30s or younger, most doctors recommend trying to get pregnant for at least a year before having any testing or treatment. 	If you're between 35 and 40, discuss your concerns with your doctor after six months of trying. 	If you're older than 40, your doctor may want to begin testing or treatment right away. 	
Female sexual dysfunction	Your desire to have sex is low or absent.	You can't maintain arousal during sexual activity, or you don't become aroused despite a desire to have sex.	You can't experience an orgasm.	You have pain during sexual contact.	
Fetal alcohol syndrome	Distinctive facial features, including wide-set eyes, an exceptionally thin upper lip, a short, upturned nose, and a smooth skin surface between the nose and upper lip	Deformities of joints, limbs and fingers	Slow physical growth before and after birth	Vision difficulties or hearing problems	Small head circumference and brain size	Heart defects and problems with kidneys and bones	
Fetal macrosomia	Large fundal height. During prenatal visits, your health care provider might measure your fundal height — the distance from the top of your uterus to your pubic bone. A fundal height that measures larger than expected could be a sign of fetal macrosomia.	Excessive amniotic fluid (polyhydramnios). Too much amniotic fluid — the fluid that surrounds and protects a baby during pregnancy — might be a sign that your baby is larger than average. The amount of amniotic fluid reflects your baby's urine output, and a larger baby produces more urine. Some conditions that increase a baby's size might also increase his or her urine output.	
Fever	Sweating	Shivering	Headache	Muscle aches	Loss of appetite	Dehydration	General weakness	
Fibroadenoma	Round with distinct borders	Easily moved	Firm or rubbery	Painless	
Fibrocystic breasts	Breast lumps or areas of thickening that tend to blend into the surrounding breast tissue	Generalized breast pain or tenderness	Fluctuating size of breast lumps	Green or dark brown nonbloody nipple discharge that tends to leak without pressure or squeezing	Changes that occur in both breasts, rather than just one	Monthly increase in breast pain or lumpiness from midcycle (ovulation) to just before your period	
Fibromuscular dysplasia	High blood pressure	Tissue damage in your kidney (ischemic renal atrophy)	Chronic kidney failure, rarely	
Fibromyalgia	Widespread pain. The pain associated with fibromyalgia often is described as a constant dull ache that has lasted for at least three months. To be considered widespread, the pain must occur on both sides of your body and above and below your waist.	Fatigue. People with fibromyalgia often awaken tired, even though they report sleeping for long periods of time. Sleep is often disrupted by pain, and many patients with fibromyalgia have other sleep disorders, such as restless legs syndrome and sleep apnea.	Cognitive difficulties. A symptom commonly referred to as "fibro fog" impairs the ability to focus, pay attention and concentrate on mental tasks.	Other problems. Many people who have fibromyalgia also may experience depression, headaches, and pain or cramping in the lower abdomen.	
Fibrous dysplasia	Bone pain	Bone deformities	Fractures	Nerve entrapment	
Folliculitis	Clusters of small red bumps or white-headed pimples that develop around hair follicles 	Pus-filled blisters that break open and crust over 	Red and inflamed skin 	Itchy or burning skin 	Tenderness or pain 	A large swollen bump or mass 	
Food allergy	Tingling or itching in the mouth	Hives, itching or eczema	Swelling of the lips, face, tongue and throat or other parts of the body	Wheezing, nasal congestion or trouble breathing	Abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting	Dizziness, lightheadedness or fainting	
Food poisoning	Nausea	Vomiting	Watery diarrhea	Abdominal pain and cramps	Fever	
Frontal lobe seizures	Head and eye movement to one side 	Complete or partial unresponsiveness or difficulty speaking 	Explosive screams, including profanities, or laughter 	Abnormal body posturing, such as one arm extending while the other flexes, as if the person is posing like a fencer 	Repetitive movements, such as rocking, bicycle pedaling or pelvic thrusting 	
Frontotemporal dementia	Increasingly inappropriate actions 	Loss of empathy and other interpersonal skills 	Lack of judgment and inhibition 	Apathy 	Repetitive compulsive behavior 	A decline in personal hygiene 	Changes in eating habits, predominantly overeating 	Lack of awareness of thinking or behavioral changes 	
Frostbite	At first, cold skin and a prickling feeling	Numbness	Red, white, bluish-white or grayish-yellow skin	Hard or waxy-looking skin	Clumsiness due to joint and muscle stiffness	Blistering after rewarming, in severe cases	
Frozen shoulder	Freezing stage. Any movement of your shoulder causes pain, and your shoulder's range of motion starts to become limited.	Frozen stage. Pain may begin to diminish during this stage. However, your shoulder becomes stiffer, and using it becomes more difficult.	Thawing stage. The range of motion in your shoulder begins to improve.	
Fuchs' dystrophy	Glare, which is an early symptom and reduces contrast perception or affects vision in low light.	Blurred vision, which occurs in the morning after awakening and gradually improves during the day. As the disease progresses, vision can take longer to improve or may not improve.	Distorted vision, sensitivity to light, difficulty seeing at night and seeing halos around light 	Painful, tiny blisters on the surface of your cornea	A cornea that looks cloudy or hazy	
Generalized anxiety disorder	Persistent worrying or obsession about small or large concerns that's out of proportion to the impact of the event	Inability to set aside or let go of a worry	Inability to relax, restlessness, and feeling keyed up or on edge	Difficulty concentrating, or the feeling that your mind "goes blank"	Worrying about excessively worrying	Distress about making decisions for fear of making the wrong decision	Carrying every option in a situation all the way out to its possible negative conclusion	Difficulty handling uncertainty or indecisiveness	
Galactorrhea	Persistent or intermittent milky nipple discharge that has no trace of blood 	Nipple discharge involving multiple milk ducts 	Spontaneously leaked or manually expressed nipple discharge 	One or both breasts affected 	Absent or irregular menstrual periods 	Headaches or vision problems 	
Gallbladder cancer	Abdominal pain, particularly in the upper right portion of the abdomen	Abdominal bloating	Itchiness	Fever	Loss of appetite	Losing weight without trying	Nausea	Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice)	
Gallstones	Sudden and rapidly intensifying pain in the upper right portion of your abdomen	Sudden and rapidly intensifying pain in the center of your abdomen, just below your breastbone	Back pain between your shoulder blades	Pain in your right shoulder	
Ganglion cyst	Location. Ganglion cysts most commonly develop along the tendons or joints of your wrists or hands. The next most common locations are the ankles and feet, although these cysts can occur near other joints as well.	Shape and size. Ganglion cysts are round or oval and usually measure less than an inch in diameter. Some are so small that they can't be felt. The size of a cyst can fluctuate, often getting larger when you use that joint for repetitive motions.	Pain. Ganglion cysts usually are painless. However, if a cyst presses on a nerve — even if the cyst is too small to form a noticeable lump — it can cause pain, tingling, numbness or muscle weakness.	
Gangrene	Skin discoloration — ranging from pale to blue, purple, black, bronze or red, depending on the type of gangrene you have	A clear line between healthy and damaged skin	Severe pain followed by a feeling of numbness	A foul-smelling discharge leaking from a sore	
Gas and gas pains	Voluntary or involuntary passing of gas, either as belches or as flatus.	Sharp, jabbing pains or cramps in your abdomen. These pains may occur anywhere in your abdomen and can change locations quickly and get better quickly.	A 'knotted' feeling in your abdomen.	Swelling and tightness in your abdomen (bloating).	
Gastroparesis	Vomiting	Nausea	A feeling of fullness after eating just a few bites	Abdominal bloating	Abdominal pain	Changes in blood sugar levels	Lack of appetite	Weight loss and malnutrition	
Gastritis	Gnawing or burning ache or pain (indigestion) in your upper abdomen that may become either worse or better with eating	Nausea	Vomiting	A feeling of fullness in your upper abdomen after eating	
GERD	A burning sensation in your chest (heartburn), sometimes spreading to your throat, along with a sour taste in your mouth	Chest pain	Difficulty swallowing (dysphagia)	Dry cough	Hoarseness or sore throat	Regurgitation of food or sour liquid (acid reflux)	Sensation of a lump in your throat	
Gaucher's disease	Abdominal complaints. Because the liver and especially the spleen can enlarge dramatically, the abdomen can become painfully distended.	Skeletal abnormalities. Gaucher's disease can weaken bone, increasing the risk of painful fractures. It can also interfere with the blood supply to your bones, which can cause portions of the bone to die.	Blood disorders. A decrease in healthy red blood cells (anemia) can result in severe fatigue. Gaucher's disease also affects the cells responsible for clotting, which can cause easy bruising and nosebleeds.	
Genital herpes	Pain or itching that begins within two to 10 days after exposure to an infected sexual partner	Small red bumps or tiny white blisters, which may appear several days later	Ulcers that form when the blisters rupture and ooze or bleed	Scabs that form as the ulcers heal	
Genital warts	Small, flesh-colored or gray swellings in your genital area 	Several warts close together that take on a cauliflower shape 	Itching or discomfort in your genital area 	Bleeding with intercourse 	
Geographic tongue	Smooth, red, irregularly shaped patches (lesions) on the top or side of your tongue 	Frequent changes in the location, size and shape of lesions 	Discomfort, pain or burning sensation in some cases, most often related to eating hot, spicy, salty or acidic foods 	
Giant cell arteritis	Persistent, severe head pain and tenderness, usually in your temple area 	Vision loss or double vision 	Scalp tenderness — it may hurt to comb your hair or even to lay your head on a pillow, especially where the arteries are inflamed 	Jaw pain (jaw claudication) when you chew or open your mouth wide 	Sudden, permanent loss of vision in one eye 	Fever 	Unexplained weight loss 	
Giardiasis	Watery, sometimes foul-smelling diarrhea that may alternate with soft, greasy stools 	Fatigue or malaise 	Abdominal cramps and bloating 	Belching gas with a bad taste 	Nausea 	Weight loss 	
Gilbert's syndrome	Illness, such as a cold or the flu 	Fasting or eating a very low-calorie diet 	Dehydration 	Menstruation 	Stress 	Strenuous exercise 	Lack of sleep 	
Gingivitis	Swollen gums	Soft, puffy gums	Receding gums	Occasionally, tender gums	Gums that bleed easily when you brush or floss, sometimes seen as redness or pinkness on your brush or floss	A change in the color of your gums from a healthy pink to dusky red	Bad breath	
Glaucoma	Gradual loss of peripheral vision, usually in both eyes	Tunnel vision in the advanced stages	
Glioma	Astrocytomas, including astrocytoma, anaplastic astrocytoma and glioblastoma	Ependymomas, including anaplastic ependymoma, myxopapillary ependymoma and subependymoma	Oligoastrocytomas, including oligodendroglioma, anaplastic oligodendroglioma and anaplastic oligoastrocytoma	Mixed tumor types, which involve more than one type of cell	
Glomerulonephritis	Pink or cola-colored urine from red blood cells in your urine (hematuria)	Foamy urine due to excess protein (proteinuria)	High blood pressure (hypertension)	Fluid retention (edema) with swelling evident in your face, hands, feet and abdomen	Fatigue from anemia or kidney failure	
Goiter	A visible swelling at the base of your neck that may be particularly obvious when you shave or put on makeup	A tight feeling in your throat	Coughing	Hoarseness	Difficulty swallowing	Difficulty breathing	
Golfer's elbow	Pain and tenderness on the inner side of your elbow. Sometimes the pain extends along the inner side of your forearm.	Stiffness. Your elbow may feel stiff, and it may hurt to make a fist.	Weakness. You may have weakness in your hands and wrists.	Numbness or tingling. Many people with golfer's elbow experience numbness or a tingling sensation that radiates into one or more fingers — usually the ring and little fingers.	
Gonorrhea	Painful urination	Pus-like discharge from the tip of the penis	Pain or swelling in one testicle	
Gout	Intense joint pain. Gout usually affects the large joint of your big toe, but it can occur in your feet, ankles, knees, hands and wrists. The pain is likely to be most severe within the first four to 12 hours after it begins.	Lingering discomfort. After the most severe pain subsides, some joint discomfort may last from a few days to a few weeks. Later attacks are likely to last longer and affect more joints.	Inflammation and redness. The affected joint or joints become swollen, tender, warm and red.	Limited range of motion. Decreased joint mobility may occur as gout progresses.	
Grand mal seizure	Tonic phase. Loss of consciousness occurs, and the muscles suddenly contract and cause the person to fall down. This phase tends to last about 10 to 20 seconds.	Clonic phase. The muscles go into rhythmic contractions, alternately flexing and relaxing. Convulsions usually last for less than two minutes.	
Granuloma annulare	Localized. This is the most common type of granuloma annulare. The lesion borders have a circular or semicircular shape, with a diameter up to 2 inches (5 centimeters). It occurs most commonly on the hands, feet, wrists and ankles of young adults, particularly women. 	Generalized. Up to 15 percent of the people who have granuloma annulare have lesions over a large portion of their bodies — including the trunk, arms and legs. This variety is more likely to be itchy and most often affects adults. 	Subcutaneous. Occurring predominantly in young children, this type of granuloma annulare produces a firm lump under the skin instead of a rash. The lump is usually less than 1.5 inches (3.8 centimeters) in diameter. 	
Graves' disease	Anxiety and irritability	A fine tremor of your hands or fingers	Heat sensitivity and an increase in perspiration or warm, moist skin	Weight loss, despite normal eating habits	Enlargement of your thyroid gland (goiter)	Change in menstrual cycles	Erectile dysfunction or reduced libido	Frequent bowel movements	Bulging eyes (Graves' ophthalmopathy)	Thick, red skin usually on the shins or tops of the feet (Graves' dermopathy)	Rapid or irregular heartbeat (palpitations)	
Group B strep disease	Fever	Difficulty feeding	Lethargy	
Growing pains	Persistent 	Still present in the morning 	Severe enough to interfere with your child's normal activities 	Located in the joints 	Associated with an injury 	Accompanied by other signs or symptoms, such as swelling, redness, tenderness, fever, limping, rash, loss of appetite, weakness or fatigue 	Associated with an injury 	
Growth plate fractures	Pain and tenderness, particularly in response to pressure on the growth plate 	Inability to move the affected area or to put weight or pressure on the limb 	Warmth and swelling at the end of a bone, near a joint 	
Guillain-Barre syndrome	Prickling, "pins and needles" sensations in your fingers, toes, ankles or wrists	Weakness in your legs that spreads to your upper body	Unsteady walking or inability to walk or climb stairs	Difficulty with eye or facial movements, including speaking, chewing or swallowing	Severe pain that may feel achy or cramp-like and may be worse at night	Difficulty with bladder control or bowel function	Rapid heart rate	Low or high blood pressure	Difficulty breathing	
Gynecomastia	Swollen breast gland tissue	Breast tenderness	
H. pylori infection	An ache or burning pain in your abdomen	Abdominal pain that's worse when your stomach is empty	Nausea	Loss of appetite	Frequent burping	Bloating	Unintentional weight loss	
Hair loss	Gradual thinning on top of head. This is the most common type of hair loss, affecting both men and women. In men, hair often begins to recede from the forehead in a line that resembles the letter M. Women typically retain a line of hair at the forehead but experience a broadening of the part in their hair.	Circular or patchy bald spots. Some people experience smooth bald spots, often about an inch (2.6 centimeters) across. This type of hair loss usually affects just the scalp, but it sometimes also occurs in beards or eyebrows. In some cases, your skin may become itchy or painful before the hair falls out.	Sudden loosening of hair. A physical or emotional shock can cause hair to loosen. Handfuls of hair may come out when combing or washing your hair or even after gentle tugging. This type of hair loss usually causes overall hair thinning and not bald patches.	Full-body hair loss. Some conditions and medical treatments, such as chemotherapy for cancer, can result in the loss of hair all over your body. The hair usually grows back after treatment ends.	
Hairy cell leukemia	A feeling of fullness in your abdomen that may make it uncomfortable to eat more than a little at a time	Fatigue	Easy bruising	Recurring infections	Weakness	Weight loss	
Hand-foot-and-mouth disease	Fever	Sore throat	Feeling of being unwell (malaise)	Painful, red, blister-like lesions on the tongue, gums and inside of the cheeks	A red rash, without itching but sometimes with blistering, on the palms, soles and sometimes the buttocks	Irritability in infants and toddlers	Loss of appetite	
Hangovers	Fatigue and weakness	Thirst	Headaches and muscle aches	Nausea, vomiting or stomach pain	Poor or decreased sleep	Increased sensitivity to light and sound	Dizziness or a sense of the room spinning	Shakiness	Decreased ability to concentrate	Mood disturbances, such as depression, anxiety and irritability	Rapid heartbeat	
Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome	Fever and chills	Headaches and muscle aches	Vomiting, diarrhea or abdominal pain	
Hashimoto's disease	Fatigue and sluggishness	Increased sensitivity to cold	Constipation	Pale, dry skin	A puffy face	Hoarse voice	Unexplained weight gain — occurring infrequently and rarely exceeding 10 to 20 pounds, most of which is fluid	Muscle aches, tenderness and stiffness, especially in your shoulders and hips	Pain and stiffness in your joints and swelling in your knees or the small joints in your hands and feet	Muscle weakness, especially in your lower extremities	Excessive or prolonged menstrual bleeding (menorrhagia)	Depression	
Hay fever	Runny nose and nasal congestion	Watery or itchy eyes	Sneezing	Cough	Itchy nose, roof of mouth or throat	Sinus pressure and facial pain	Swollen, blue-colored skin under the eyes (allergic shiners)	Decreased sense of smell or taste	
Head and neck cancers	Esthesioneuroblastoma	Floor of mouth cancer	Lip cancer	Mouth cancer	Nasal cavity cancer	Nasopharyngeal cancer	Paranasal sinus cancer	Parathyroid cancer	Salivary gland cancer	Soft palate cancer	Throat cancer	Thyroid cancer	Tongue cancer	Tonsil cancer	
Head lice	Itching. Itching on the scalp, neck and ears is the most common symptom. This is an allergic reaction to louse saliva. When a person has an infestation for the first time, itching may not occur for two to six weeks after infestation.	Lice on scalp. Lice may be visible but are difficult to spot because they're small, avoid light and move quickly.	Lice eggs (nits) on hair shafts. Nits stick to hair shafts. Incubating nits may be difficult to see because they're very tiny and camouflaged to match hair color. They're easiest to spot around the ears and the hairline of the neck. Empty nits may be easier to spot because they're lighter in color and further from the scalp. However, the presence of nits doesn't necessarily indicate an active infestation.	
Headaches in children	Pulsating, throbbing or pounding head pain	Pain that worsens with exertion	Nausea	Vomiting	Abdominal pain	Extreme sensitivity to light and sound	
Hearing loss	Muffling of speech and other sounds	Difficulty understanding words, especially against background noise or in a crowd of people	Trouble hearing consonants	Frequently asking others to speak more slowly, clearly and loudly	Needing to turn up the volume of the television or radio	Withdrawal from conversations	Avoidance of some social settings	
Heart arrhythmias	A fluttering in your chest	A racing heartbeat (tachycardia)	A slow heartbeat (bradycardia)	Chest pain	Shortness of breath	Lightheadedness	Dizziness	Fainting (syncope) or near fainting	
Heart attack	Pressure, tightness, pain, or a squeezing or aching sensation in your chest or arms that may spread to your neck, jaw or back	Nausea, indigestion, heartburn or abdominal pain	Shortness of breath	Cold sweat	Fatigue	Lightheadedness or sudden dizziness	
Heart disease	Chest pain (angina)	Shortness of breath	Pain, numbness, weakness or coldness in your legs or arms if the blood vessels in those parts of your body are narrowed	Pain in the neck, jaw, throat, upper abdomen or back	
Heart failure	Shortness of breath (dyspnea) when you exert yourself or when you lie down	Fatigue and weakness	Swelling (edema) in your legs, ankles and feet	Rapid or irregular heartbeat	Reduced ability to exercise	Persistent cough or wheezing with white or pink blood-tinged phlegm	Increased need to urinate at night	Swelling of your abdomen (ascites)	Sudden weight gain from fluid retention	Lack of appetite and nausea	Difficulty concentrating or decreased alertness	Sudden, severe shortness of breath and coughing up pink, foamy mucus	Chest pain if your heart failure is caused by a heart attack	
Heart murmurs	Skin that appears blue, especially on your fingertips and lips	Swelling or sudden weight gain	Shortness of breath	Chronic cough	Enlarged liver	Enlarged neck veins	Poor appetite and failure to grow normally (in infants)	Heavy sweating with minimal or no exertion	Chest pain	Dizziness	Fainting	
Heart palpitations	Skipping beats	Fluttering	Beating too fast	Pumping harder than usual	
Heart valve disease	Aortic valve disease	Mitral valve disease	Pulmonary valve disease	Tricuspid valve disease	
Heartburn	A burning pain in the chest that usually occurs after eating and may occur at night	Pain that worsens when lying down or bending over	
Heat exhaustion	Cool, moist skin with goose bumps when in the heat	Heavy sweating	Faintness	Dizziness	Fatigue	Weak, rapid pulse	Low blood pressure upon standing	Muscle cramps	Nausea	Headache	
Heat rash	The mildest form of heat rash (miliaria crystallina) affects the sweat ducts in the top layer of skin. This form is marked by clear, fluid-filled blisters and bumps (papules) that break easily.	A type that occurs deeper in the skin (miliaria rubra) is sometimes called prickly heat. Signs and symptoms include red bumps and itching or prickling in the affected area.	Occasionally, the fluid-containing sacs (vesicles) of miliaria rubra become inflamed and pus-filled (pustular). This form is called miliaria pustulosa.	A less common form of heat rash (miliaria profunda) affects the dermis, a deeper layer of skin. Retained sweat leaks out of the sweat gland into the skin, causing firm, flesh-colored lesions that resemble goose bumps.	
Heatstroke	High body temperature. A body temperature of 104 F (40 C) or higher is the main sign of heatstroke.	Altered mental state or behavior. Confusion, agitation, slurred speech, irritability, delirium, seizures and coma can all result from heatstroke.	Alteration in sweating. In heatstroke brought on by hot weather, your skin will feel hot and dry to the touch. However, in heatstroke brought on by strenuous exercise, your skin may feel moist.	Nausea and vomiting. You may feel sick to your stomach or vomit.	Flushed skin. Your skin may turn red as your body temperature increases.	Rapid breathing. Your breathing may become rapid and shallow.	Racing heart rate. Your pulse may significantly increase because heat stress places a tremendous burden on your heart to help cool your body.	Headache. Your head may throb.	
Hemochromatosis	Joint pain 	Fatigue 	Weakness 	
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS)	Bloody diarrhea 	Vomiting 	Abdominal pain 	Pale skin tone 	Fatigue and irritability 	Fever, usually not high and may not be present at all 	Blood in the urine 	Small, unexplained bruises or bleeding from the nose and mouth 	Decreased urination or blood in the urine 	Swelling of the face, hands, feet or entire body 	Confusion 	
Hemophilia	Unexplained and excessive bleeding from cuts or injuries, or after surgery or dental work	Many large or deep bruises	Unusual bleeding after vaccinations	Pain, swelling or tightness in your joints	Blood in your urine or stool	Nosebleeds without a known cause	In infants, unexplained irritability	
Hemorrhoids	Painless bleeding during bowel movements — you might notice small amounts of bright red blood on your toilet tissue or in the toilet bowl	Itching or irritation in your anal region	Pain or discomfort	Swelling around your anus	A lump near your anus, which may be sensitive or painful	Leakage of feces	
Henoch-Schonlein purpura	Rash (purpura). Reddish-purple spots, which look like bruises, are the most distinctive and universal sign of Henoch-Schonlein purpura. The rash develops mainly on the buttocks, legs and feet, but it can also appear on the arms, face and trunk and may be worse in areas of pressure, such as the sock line and waistline. 	Swollen, sore joints (arthritis). People with Henoch-Schonlein purpura often have painful, swollen joints — mainly in the knees and ankles. Joint pain sometimes precedes the classical rash by one or two days. These symptoms subside when the disease clears and leave no lasting damage. 	Gastrointestinal symptoms. Many children with Henoch-Schonlein purpura develop gastrointestinal symptoms, such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting or bloody stools. These symptoms sometimes occur before the rash appears. 	Kidney involvement. Henoch-Schonlein purpura can also affect the kidneys. In most cases, this shows up as protein or blood in the urine, which you may not even know is there unless you have a urine test done. Usually this goes away once the illness passes, but in a few cases, kidney disease may develop and even persist. 	
Hepatitis A	Fatigue	Nausea and vomiting	Abdominal pain or discomfort, especially in the area of your liver on your right side beneath your lower ribs	Clay-colored bowel movements	Loss of appetite	Low-grade fever	Dark urine	Joint pain	Yellowing of the skin and eyes (jaundice)	
Hepatitis B	Abdominal pain	Dark urine	Fever	Joint pain	Loss of appetite	Nausea and vomiting	Weakness and fatigue	Yellowing of your skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice)	
Hepatitis C	Fatigue	Nausea or poor appetite	Stomach pain	Dark-colored urine	Yellow discoloration in the skin and eyes (jaundice)	Fever	Muscle and joint pains	
Hiatal hernia	Heartburn	Belching	Difficulty swallowing	Chest or abdominal pain	Feeling especially full after meals	Vomiting blood or passing black stools, which may indicate gastrointestinal bleeding	
Herniated disk	Arm or leg pain. If your herniated disk is in your lower back, you'll typically feel the most intense pain in your buttocks, thigh and calf. It may also involve part of the foot. If your herniated disk is in your neck, the pain will typically be most intense in the shoulder and arm. This pain may shoot into your arm or leg when you cough, sneeze or move your spine into certain positions.	Numbness or tingling. People who have a herniated disk often experience numbness or tingling in the body part served by the affected nerves.	Weakness. Muscles served by the affected nerves tend to weaken. This may cause you to stumble, or impair your ability to lift or hold items.	
Hidradenitis suppurativa	Blackheads. Small pitted areas of skin containing blackheads — often appearing in pairs or a "double-barreled" pattern — are a common feature. 	Red, tender bumps. These bumps, or lesions, often enlarge, break open and drain pus. The drainage may have an unpleasant odor. Itching, burning and excessive sweating may accompany the bumps. 	Painful, pea-sized lumps. These hard lumps, which develop under the skin, may persist for years, enlarge and become inflamed. 	Leaking bumps or sores. These open wounds heal very slowly, if at all, often leading to scarring and the development of tunnels under the skin. 	
Hip fracture	Inability to move immediately after a fall	Severe pain in your hip or groin	Inability to put weight on your leg on the side of your injured hip	Stiffness, bruising and swelling in and around your hip area	Shorter leg on the side of your injured hip	Turning outward of your leg on the side of your injured hip	
Hip labral tear	A locking, clicking or catching sensation in your hip joint	Pain in your hip or groin	Stiffness or limited range of motion in your hip joint	
Hirschsprung's disease	Swollen belly 	Vomiting, including vomiting a green or brown substance 	Constipation or gas, which might make a newborn fussy 	Diarrhea 	
Hirsutism	Deepening voice	Balding	Acne	Decrease in breast size	Enlargement of the clitoris	
Histoplasmosis	Fever	Chills	Headache	Muscle aches	Dry cough	Chest discomfort	
HIV/AIDS	Fever	Headache	Muscle aches	Rash	Chills	Sore throat	Mouth or genital ulcers	Swollen lymph glands, mainly on the neck	Joint pain	Night sweats	Diarrhea	
Hives and angioedema	Red or flesh-colored	Intensely itchy	Roughly oval or shaped like a worm	A few millimeters to several inches across	
Hoarding disorder	Persistent inability to part with any possession, regardless of its value	Excessive attachment to possessions, including discomfort letting others touch or borrow them or distress at the idea of letting an item go	Cluttered living spaces, making areas of the home unusable for the intended purpose, such as not being able to cook in the kitchen or use the bathroom to bathe	Keeping stacks of newspapers, magazines or junk mail	Letting food or trash build up to unusually excessive, unsanitary levels	Acquiring unneeded or seemingly useless items, such as trash or napkins from a restaurant	Difficulty managing daily activities because of procrastination and trouble making decisions	Moving items from one pile to another, without discarding anything	Difficulty organizing items, sometimes losing important items in the clutter	Shame or embarrassment	Limited or no social interactions	
Hodgkin's lymphoma	Painless swelling of lymph nodes in your neck, armpits or groin	Persistent fatigue	Fever and chills	Night sweats	Unexplained weight loss — as much as 10 percent or more of your body weight	Loss of appetite	Itching	Increased sensitivity to the effects of alcohol or pain in your lymph nodes after drinking alcohol	
Horner syndrome	A persistently small pupil (miosis)	A notable difference in pupil size between the two eyes (anisocoria)	Little or delayed opening (dilation) of the affected pupil in dim light	Drooping of the upper eyelid (ptosis)	Slight elevation of the lower lid, sometimes called upside-down ptosis	Little or no sweating (anhidrosis) either on the entire side of the face or an isolated patch of skin on the affected side	
Hot flashes	A sudden feeling of warmth spreading through your upper body and face	A flushed appearance with red, blotchy skin	Rapid heartbeat	Perspiration, mostly on your upper body	Feeling chilled as the hot flash subsides	
HPV infection	
    Genital warts. Genital warts may appear as flat lesions, small cauliflower-like bumps or tiny stem-like protrusions. In women, genital warts appear most commonly on the vulva but may also occur near the anus, on the cervix or in the vagina.
    In men, genital warts may appear on the penis and scrotum or around the anus. Genital warts rarely cause discomfort or pain, though they may itch.
    	Common warts. Common warts appear as rough, raised bumps that usually occur on the hands, fingers or elbows. In most cases, common warts are simply a nuisance because of their appearance, but they may also be painful or susceptible to injury or bleeding.	Plantar warts. Plantar warts are hard, grainy growths that usually appear on the heels or balls of your feet, areas that feel the most pressure. These warts may cause discomfort or pain.	Flat warts. Flat warts are flat-topped, slightly raised lesions darker than your regular skin color. They usually appear on your face, neck or on areas that have been scratched. HPV infections that cause flat warts usually affect children, adolescents and young adults.	
Hunter syndrome	Delayed development, such as late walking or talking 	Changing facial features, including thickening of the lips, tongue and nostrils 	A broad nose and flared nostrils 	Claw-like hands 	A protruding tongue 	Abnormal bone size or shape and other skeletal irregularities 	Enlarged internal organs, such as the liver and spleen, resulting in a distended abdomen 	Respiratory difficulties including sleep apnea, a condition in which breathing intermittently stops during sleep 	Cardiovascular disorders, such as progressive thickening of heart valves, high blood pressure (hypertension) and obstruction of blood vessels 	Vision damage or loss from degeneration of cells that capture light and buildup of cellular debris in the brain causing pressure on the optic nerve and eye 	Progressive loss of hearing 	Aggressive behavior 	Stunted growth 	Joint stiffness 	Diarrhea 	Carpal tunnel syndrome 	Sleep apnea 	
Huntington's disease	Involuntary jerking or writhing movements (chorea)	Muscle problems, such as rigidity or muscle contracture (dystonia)	Slow or abnormal eye movements	Impaired gait, posture and balance	Difficulty with the physical production of speech or swallowing	
Hurthle cell cancer	A fast-growing lump in your neck, just below your Adam's apple	Pain in your neck or throat	Hoarseness or other changes in your voice	Shortness of breath	Swallowing difficulty	
Hydrocephalus	An unusually large head	A rapid increase in the size of the head	A bulging or tense soft spot (fontanel) on the top of the head	
Hypercalcemia	Kidneys. Excess calcium in your blood means your kidneys have to work harder to filter it out. This can cause excessive thirst and frequent urination.	Digestive system. Hypercalcemia can cause stomach upset, nausea, vomiting and constipation.	Bones and muscles. In most cases, the excess calcium in your blood was leached from your bones, which weakens them. This can cause bone pain. Some people who have hypercalcemia also experience muscle weakness.	Brain. Hypercalcemia can interfere with the way your brain works, resulting in confusion, lethargy and fatigue.	
Hyperglycemia in diabetes	Frequent urination 	Increased thirst 	Blurred vision 	Fatigue 	Headache 	
Hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating)	Sweating disrupts your daily routine	You suddenly begin to sweat more than usual	You experience night sweats for no apparent reason	
Hyperparathyroidism	Fragile bones that easily fracture (osteoporosis)	Kidney stones	Excessive urination	Abdominal pain	Tiring easily or weakness	Depression or forgetfulness	Bone and joint pain	Frequent complaints of illness with no apparent cause	Nausea, vomiting or loss of appetite	
Hyperthyroidism	Sudden weight loss, even when your appetite and the amount and type of food you eat remain the same or even increase 	Rapid heartbeat (tachycardia) — commonly more than 100 beats a minute — irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia) or pounding of your heart (palpitations) 	Increased appetite 	Nervousness, anxiety and irritability 	Tremor — usually a fine trembling in your hands and fingers 	Sweating 	Changes in menstrual patterns 	Increased sensitivity to heat 	Changes in bowel patterns, especially more frequent bowel movements 	An enlarged thyroid gland (goiter), which may appear as a swelling at the base of your neck 	Fatigue, muscle weakness 	Difficulty sleeping 	Skin thinning 	Fine, brittle hair 	
Hypochondria	Having a long-term intense fear or anxiety about having a serious disease or health condition 	Worrying that minor symptoms or bodily sensations mean you have a serious illness 	Seeing doctors repeated times or having involved medical exams such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), echocardiograms or exploratory surgery 	Frequently switching doctors — if one doctor tells you that you aren't sick, you may not believe it and seek out other opinions 	Continuously talking about your symptoms or suspected diseases with family and friends 	Obsessively doing health research 	Frequently checking your body for problems, such as lumps or sores 	Frequently checking your vital signs, such as pulse or blood pressure 	Thinking you have a disease after reading or hearing about it 	
Hypoglycemia	Heart palpitations	Fatigue	Pale skin	Shakiness	Anxiety	Sweating	Hunger	Irritability	Tingling sensation around the mouth	Crying out during sleep	
Hyponatremia	Nausea and vomiting 	Headache	Confusion 	Loss of energy and fatigue 	Restlessness and irritability 	Muscle weakness, spasms or cramps 	Seizures 	Coma 	
Hypoparathyroidism	Tingling or burning (paresthesias) in your fingertips, toes and lips	Muscle aches or cramps affecting your legs, feet, abdomen or face	Twitching or spasms of your muscles, particularly around your mouth, but also in your hands, arms and throat	Fatigue or weakness	Painful menstruation	Patchy hair loss, such as thinning of your eyebrows	Dry, coarse skin	Brittle nails	Headaches	Depression, mood swings	Memory problems	
Hypopituitarism	Fatigue 	Weight loss 	Decreased sex drive 	Sensitivity to cold or difficulty staying warm 	Decreased appetite 	Facial puffiness 	Anemia 	Infertility 	Hot flashes, irregular or no periods, loss of pubic hair, and inability to produce milk for breast-feeding in women 	Decreased facial or body hair in men 	Short stature in children 	
Hypoplastic left heart syndrome	Grayish-blue skin color (cyanosis)	Rapid, difficult breathing	Poor feeding	Cold hands and feet	Being unusually drowsy or inactive	
Hypospadias	Opening of the urethra at a location other than the tip of the penis	Downward curve of the penis (chordee) 	Hooded appearance of the penis because only the top half of the penis is covered by foreskin	Abnormal spraying during urination	
Hypothermia	Shivering	Dizziness	Hunger	Nausea	Faster breathing	Trouble speaking	Slight confusion	Lack of coordination	Fatigue	Increased heart rate	
Hypothyroidism	Fatigue 	Increased sensitivity to cold 	Constipation 	Dry skin 	Unexplained weight gain 	Puffy face 	Hoarseness 	Muscle weakness 	Elevated blood cholesterol level 	Muscle aches, tenderness and stiffness 	Pain, stiffness or swelling in your joints 	Heavier than normal or irregular menstrual periods 	Thinning hair 	Slowed heart rate 	Depression 	Impaired memory 	
Irritable bowel syndrome	Abdominal pain or cramping	A bloated feeling	Gas 	Diarrhea or constipation — sometimes alternating bouts of constipation and diarrhea	Mucus in the stool	
Ice cream headaches	Sharp, stabbing pain in the forehead	Pain that peaks about 20 to 60 seconds after it begins and goes away in about the same time	Pain that rarely lasts longer than five minutes	
Ichthyosis vulgaris	Dry, scaly skin 	Tile-like, small scales 	Scales colored white, dirty gray or brown — with darker colored scales typically on darker skin 	Flaky scalp 	Deep, painful cracks in your skin 	
Infant jaundice	Your baby's skin becomes more yellow	Your baby's skin looks yellow on the abdomen, arms or legs	The whites of your baby's eyes look yellow	Your baby seems listless or sick or is difficult to awaken	Your baby isn't gaining weight or is feeding poorly	Your baby makes high-pitched cries	Your baby develops any other signs or symptoms that concern you	Jaundice lasts more than three weeks 	
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)	Easy or excessive bruising (purpura) — your skin naturally bruises and bleeds more easily as you age, but this shouldn't be confused with ITP 	Superficial bleeding into your skin that appears as a rash of pinpoint-sized reddish-purple spots (petechiae), usually on your lower legs 	Prolonged bleeding from cuts 	Spontaneous bleeding from nose 	Bleeding gums, especially after dental work 	Blood in urine or stools 	Unusually heavy menstrual flow 	Fatigue 	
IgA nephropathy (Berger's disease)	Cola- or tea-colored urine (caused by red blood cells in the urine) 	Repeated episodes of cola- or tea-colored urine, sometimes even visible blood in your urine, usually during or after an upper respiratory or other type of infection 	Pain in the side(s) of your back below your ribs (flank) 	Foam in the toilet water from protein in your urine 	Swelling (edema) in your hands and feet 	High blood pressure 	
Impacted wisdom teeth	Pain	Red or swollen gums	Tender or bleeding gums	Swelling around the jaw	Bad breath	An unpleasant taste in your mouth	Headache	
Incompetent cervix	A sensation of pelvic pressure	A backache	Mild abdominal cramps	A change in vaginal discharge	Light vaginal bleeding	
Indigestion	Early fullness during a meal. You haven't eaten much of your meal, but you already feel full and may not be able to finish eating. 	Uncomfortable fullness after a meal. Fullness lasts longer than it should. 	Discomfort in the upper abdomen. You feel a mild to severe pain in the area between the bottom of your breastbone (sternum) and your navel. 	Burning in the upper abdomen. You feel an uncomfortable heat or burning sensation between the bottom of the breastbone and navel. 	Bloating in the upper abdomen. You feel an uncomfortable sensation of tightness. 	Nausea. 	
Infant reflux	Isn't gaining weight 	Spits up forcefully, causing stomach contents to shoot out of his or her mouth (projectile vomiting) 	Spits up green or yellow fluid 	Spits up blood or a material that looks like coffee grounds 	Refuses food 	Has blood in his or her stool 	Has difficulty breathing 	Begins vomiting at age 6 months or older 	
Infectious diseases	Fever	Diarrhea	Fatigue	Muscle aches	
Infertility	You're age 35 to 40 and have been trying to conceive for six months or longer	You're over age 40	You menstruate irregularly or not at all	You have known fertility problems	You've been diagnosed with endometriosis or pelvic inflammatory disease	You've had more than one miscarriage	You've had prior cancer treatment	
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)	Diarrhea. Diarrhea is a common problem for people with IBD.	Fever and fatigue. Many people with IBD experience a low-grade fever. You may also feel tired or have low energy.	Abdominal pain and cramping. Inflammation and ulceration can affect the normal movement of contents through your digestive tract and may lead to pain and cramping. You may also experience nausea and vomiting.	Blood in your stool. You might notice bright red blood in the toilet bowl or darker blood mixed with your stool. You can also have bleeding you don't see (occult blood).	Reduced appetite. Abdominal pain and cramping, as well as inflammation, can affect your appetite.	Unintended weight loss. You may lose weight and even become malnourished because you cannot properly digest and absorb food.	
Inflammatory breast cancer	Rapid change in the appearance of one breast, over the course of several weeks 	Thickness, heaviness or visible enlargement of one breast 	Discoloration, giving the breast a red, purple, pink or bruised appearance 	Unusual warmth of the affected breast 	Dimpling or ridges on the skin of the affected breast, similar to an orange peel 	Tenderness, pain or aching 	Enlarged lymph nodes under the arm, above the collarbone or below the collarbone 	Flattening or turning inward of the nipple 	
Influenza (flu)	Fever over 100 F (38 C)	Aching muscles, especially in your back, arms and legs	Chills and sweats	Headache	Dry cough	Fatigue and weakness	Nasal congestion	
Ingrown hair	Small, solid, rounded bumps (papules)	Small, pus-filled, blister-like lesions (pustules)	Skin darkening (hyperpigmentation)	Pain	Itching	Embedded hairs	
Ingrown toenails	Pain and tenderness in your toe along one or both sides of the nail	Redness around your toenail	Swelling of your toe around the nail	Infection of the tissue around your toenail	
Inguinal hernia	A bulge in the area on either side of your pubic bone 	A burning, gurgling or aching sensation at the bulge 	Pain or discomfort in your groin, especially when bending over, coughing or lifting 	A heavy or dragging sensation in your groin 	Weakness or pressure in your groin 	Occasionally, pain and swelling around the testicles when the protruding intestine descends into the scrotum 	
Insomnia	Difficulty falling asleep at night	Awakening during the night	Awakening too early	Not feeling well rested after a night's sleep	Daytime tiredness or sleepiness	Irritability, depression or anxiety	Difficulty paying attention, focusing on tasks or remembering	Increased errors or accidents	Tension headaches	Distress in the stomach and intestines (gastrointestinal tract)	Ongoing worries about sleep	
Intermittent explosive disorder	Irritability 	Increased energy 	Rage 	Racing thoughts 	Tingling 	Tremors 	Palpitations 	Chest tightness 	Feeling of pressure in the head 	
Interstitial cystitis	Pain in your pelvis or between the vagina and anus in women or between the scrotum and anus in men (perineum).	Chronic pelvic pain.	A persistent, urgent need to urinate.	Frequent urination, often of small amounts, throughout the day and night. People with severe interstitial cystitis may urinate as often as 60 times a day.	Pain or discomfort while the bladder fills and relief after urinating.	Pain during sexual intercourse.	
Interstitial lung disease	Shortness of breath at rest or aggravated by exertion	Dry cough	
Intestinal ischemia	Sudden abdominal pain that may range from mild to severe 	An urgent need to have a bowel movement 	Frequent, forceful bowel movements 	Tenderness or swelling in the abdomen 	Blood in your stool 	Nausea or vomiting or both 	Fever 	
Intestinal obstruction	Crampy abdominal pain that comes and goes	Nausea	Vomiting	Diarrhea	Constipation	Inability to have a bowel movement or pass gas	Swelling of the abdomen (distention)	
Intracranial hematoma	Increasing headache	Vomiting	Drowsiness and progressive loss of consciousness	Dizziness	Confusion	Unequal pupil size	Slurred speech	Increased blood pressure	
Intussusception	Stool mixed with blood and mucus (sometimes referred to as "currant jelly" stool because of its appearance) 	Vomiting 	A lump in the abdomen 	Lethargy 	
Invasive lobular carcinoma	An area of thickening in part of the breast 	A new area of fullness or swelling in the breast 	A change in the texture or appearance of the skin over the breast, such as dimpling or thickening 	An inverted nipple 	
Iritis	Eye redness	Discomfort or achiness in the affected eye	Sensitivity to light (photophobia)	Blurred vision	Floating specks or spots in your vision	
Iron deficiency anemia	Extreme fatigue	Pale skin	Weakness	Shortness of breath	Chest pain	Frequent infections	Headache	Dizziness or lightheadedness	Cold hands and feet	Inflammation or soreness of your tongue	Brittle nails	Fast heartbeat	Unusual cravings for non-nutritive substances, such as ice, dirt or starch	Poor appetite, especially in infants and children with iron deficiency anemia	An uncomfortable tingling or crawling feeling in your legs (restless legs syndrome)	
Ischemic colitis	Pain, tenderness or cramping in your belly, which can occur suddenly or gradually 	Bright red or maroon-colored blood in your stool or, at times, passage of blood alone without stool 	A feeling of urgency to move your bowels 	Diarrhea 	
Itchy skin (pruritus)	Redness	Bumps, spots or blisters	Dry, cracked skin	Leathery or scaly texture to the skin	
Jellyfish stings	Burning, prickling, stinging pain	Red, brown or purplish tracks on the skin — a "print" of the tentacles' contact with your skin	Itching	Swelling	Tingling and numbness	Throbbing pain that radiates up a leg or an arm	
Jet lag disorder	Disturbed sleep — such as insomnia, early waking or excessive sleepiness	Daytime fatigue	Difficulty concentrating or functioning at your usual level	Stomach problems, constipation or diarrhea	A general feeling of not being well	Muscle soreness	Menstrual symptoms in women	
Juvenile fibromyalgia	Widespread diffuse pain. The pain associated with fibromyalgia often is described as a constant dull ache that has lasted for at least three months. To be considered widespread, the pain must occur on both sides of your body and above and below your waist.	Headache. Frequent headaches occur in a majority of patients with fibromyalgia.	Sleep disturbances. Despite complaints of severe fatigue, these children often take an hour or more to fall asleep. Even when they do fall asleep, many have difficulty maintaining sleep and wake up during the night.	Fatigue. People with fibromyalgia often awaken tired, even though they report sleeping for long periods of time. Sleep is often disrupted by pain, and many patients with fibromyalgia have other sleep disorders, such as restless legs syndrome and sleep apnea.	Other problems. Many people who have fibromyalgia also may have pain or cramping in the lower abdomen, report cognitive impairment (described as feeling in a "fog"), and experience depression and anxiety.	
Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis	Pain. While your child might not complain of joint pain, you may notice that he or she limps — especially first thing in the morning or after a nap.	Swelling. Joint swelling is common but is often first noticed in larger joints like the knee.	Stiffness. You might notice that your child appears clumsier than usual, particularly in the morning or after naps.	
Kawasaki disease	Fever which often is higher than 102.2 F (39 C) and lasts more than five days	Extremely red eyes (conjunctivitis) without a thick discharge	A rash on the main part of the body (trunk) and in the genital area	Red, dry, cracked lips and an extremely red, swollen tongue (strawberry tongue)	Swollen, red skin on the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet	Swollen lymph nodes in the neck and perhaps elsewhere	Irritability	
Keratitis	Eye redness	Eye pain	Excess tears or other discharge from your eye	Difficulty opening your eyelid because of pain or irritation	Blurred vision	Decreased vision	Sensitivity to light (photophobia)	A feeling that something is in your eye	
Keratoconus	Blurred or distorted vision	Increased sensitivity to bright light and glare	Problems with night vision	Many changes in eyeglass prescriptions	Sudden worsening or clouding of vision, caused by a condition in which the back of your cornea ruptures and fills with fluid (hydrops)	
Keratosis pilaris	Small white or red bumps, typically on the upper arms, legs, buttocks or cheeks 	Dry, rough and sometimes itchy skin in the areas with bumps 	Worsening in winter, when humidity is low and skin tends to be drier 	
Kidney cancer	Blood in your urine, which may appear pink, red or cola colored	Back pain just below the ribs that doesn't go away	Weight loss	Fatigue	Intermittent fever	
Kidney cysts	Dull pain in your back or side	Fever	Upper abdominal pain	
Kidney infection	Fever	Back, side (flank) or groin pain	Abdominal pain	Frequent urination	Strong, persistent urge to urinate	Burning sensation or pain when urinating	Pus or blood in your urine (hematuria)	Urine that smells bad or is cloudy	
Kidney stones	Severe pain in the side and back, below the ribs	Pain that spreads to the lower abdomen and groin	Pain that comes in waves and fluctuates in intensity	Pain on urination	Pink, red or brown urine	Cloudy or foul-smelling urine	Nausea and vomiting	Persistent need to urinate	Urinating more often than usual	Fever and chills if an infection is present	Urinating small amounts of urine	
Kleptomania	Inability to resist powerful urges to steal items that you don't need	Feeling increased tension, anxiety or arousal leading up to the theft	Feeling pleasure, relief or gratification while stealing	Feeling terrible guilt, remorse, self-loathing, shame or fear of arrest after the theft	Return of the urges and a repetition of the kleptomania cycle	
Klinefelter syndrome	Weak muscles 	Slow motor development — taking longer than average to sit up, crawl and walk 	Delay in speaking 	Quiet, docile personality 	Problems at birth, such as testicles that haven't descended into the scrotum 	
Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome	Reddish-purple birthmarks called port-wine stains or capillary malformations	Larger and longer extremities due to bone and soft tissue overgrowth that occurs most often in one of the lower limbs	Varicose veins	
Knee pain	Swelling and stiffness 	Redness and warmth to the touch 	Weakness or instability 	Popping or crunching noises 	Inability to fully straighten the knee 	
Krabbe disease	Feeding difficulties	Unexplained crying	Extreme irritability	Fever with no sign of infection	Declines in alertness	Delays in typical developmental milestones	Muscle spasms	Loss of head control	Frequent vomiting	
Lactose intolerance	Diarrhea 	Nausea, and sometimes, vomiting 	Abdominal cramps 	Bloating 	Gas 	
Laryngitis	Hoarseness 	Weak voice or voice loss 	Tickling sensation and rawness of your throat 	Sore throat 	Dry throat 	Dry cough 	
Latex allergy	Itching	Skin redness	Hives or rash	
Lazy eye (amblyopia)	An eye that wanders inward or outward 	Eyes that may not appear to work together 	Poor depth perception 	
Lead poisoning	Developmental delay	Learning difficulties	Irritability	Loss of appetite	Weight loss	Sluggishness and fatigue	Abdominal pain	Vomiting	Constipation	Hearing loss	
Left ventricular hypertrophy	Shortness of breath	Chest pain, often after exercising	Sensation of rapid, fluttering or pounding heartbeats (palpitations)	Dizziness or fainting	
Legg-Calve-Perthes disease	Limping	Pain or stiffness in the hip, groin, thigh or knee	Limited range of motion of the hip joint	
Legionnaires' disease	Headache	Muscle pain	Chills	Fever that may be 104 F (40 C) or higher	
Leukemia	Fever or chills	Persistent fatigue, weakness	Frequent or severe infections	Losing weight without trying	Swollen lymph nodes, enlarged liver or spleen	Easy bleeding or bruising	Recurrent nosebleeds	Tiny red spots in your skin (petechiae)	Excessive sweating, especially at night	Bone pain or tenderness	
Leukoplakia	White or grayish in patches that can't be wiped away 	Irregular or flat-textured 	Thickened or hardened in areas 	Along with raised, red lesions (erythroplakia), which are more likely to show precancerous changes 	
Lewy body dementia	Visual hallucinations. You may see visual hallucinations, such as colors, shapes, animals or people that aren't there. Hallucinations may be one of the first symptoms of Lewy body dementia. Some people also may experience sound (auditory), smell (olfactory) or touch (tactile) hallucinations.	Movement disorders. You may experience symptoms similar to those of Parkinson's disease (parkinsonian symptoms), such as slowed movement, rigid muscles, tremors or a shuffling walk.	Poor regulations of body function. Blood pressure, pulse, sweating and digestive process are regulated by a part of the nervous system that is often affected by Lewy body dementia. This can result in dizziness, falls and bowel issues.	Cognitive problems. You may experience thinking (cognitive) problems similar to problems experienced in Alzheimer's disease, such as confusion, reduced attention span and eventually memory loss.	Sleep difficulties. You may have a sleep disorder called rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder that can cause you to physically act out your dreams while you're asleep.	Fluctuating attention. You may have frequent episodes of drowsiness, long periods of staring into space, long naps during the day or disorganized speech.	Depression. You may experience depression sometime during the course of your illness.	
Lice	Intense itching. 	Tickling feeling from movement of hair. 	Lice on your scalp, body, clothing, or pubic or other body hair. Adult lice may be about the size of a sesame seed or slightly larger. 	Lice eggs (nits) on hair shafts. Nits resemble tiny pussy willow buds. Nits can be mistaken for dandruff, but unlike dandruff, they can't be easily brushed out of hair. 	Small, red bumps on the scalp, neck and shoulders. 	
Lichen nitidus	Size. The bumps range in size from pinpoint to pinhead size.	Shape. They are flat topped and round.	Color. Bumps are usually the same color as your skin. They may be slightly pink on people with lighter skin, or lighter than normal skin color on people with darker skin.	Location. Lichen nitidus bumps commonly occur on the chest, abdomen, arms and genital areas, including the penis. They rarely occur on the palms, soles of the feet, mucous membranes or fingernails. Lichen nitidus may clear up at one site on your body but then appear at another.	Itch. In rare cases, the bumps of lichen nitidus may itch, sometimes intensely. They may appear in a line where there's a scratch, crease or constant pressure on the skin, such as a fold of skin on the abdomen or the crease of skin on the inside of the elbow or wrist.	
Lichen planus	Purplish, flat-topped bumps, most often on the inner forearm, wrist or ankle, but sometimes on the external genitals 	Itching 	Blisters that may break to form scabs or crusts 	White spots or patches in the mouth — inside the cheeks or on the gums, lips or tongue 	Painful oral or vaginal ulcers 	Hair loss and scalp discoloration 	Nail damage or loss 	
Lichen sclerosus	Itching (pruritus), which can be severe	Discomfort, which is generally greater if lichen sclerosus appears on or around your genital or anal areas	Smooth white spots on your skin that may grow into blotchy, wrinkled patches	Easy bruising or tearing	In severe cases, bleeding, blistering or ulcerated lesions	Painful intercourse	
Limited scleroderma (CREST syndrome)	Tight, hardened skin. In limited scleroderma, skin changes typically affect only the lower arms and legs, including fingers and toes, and sometimes the face and neck. Skin can look shiny from being pulled taut over underlying bone. It may become difficult to bend your fingers or to open your mouth.	Raynaud's phenomenon. This condition occurs when small blood vessels in your fingers and toes go into spasms in response to cold or emotional stress, blocking the flow of blood. In most people, the skin turns white before becoming blue, cold and numb. When circulation improves, the skin usually reddens and may throb or tingle. Raynaud's phenomenon is often one of the earliest signs of limited scleroderma, but many people have only Raynaud's and never develop scleroderma.	Red spots or lines on skin. These small red spots or lines (telangiectasias) are caused by the swelling of tiny blood vessels near the skin's surface. They are not painful and occur primarily on the hands and face.	Bumps under the skin. Limited scleroderma may cause tiny calcium deposits (calcinosis) to develop under your skin, mainly on your elbows, knees and fingers. You can see and feel these deposits, which sometimes may be tender or become infected.	Swallowing difficulties. People with limited scleroderma commonly experience problems with their esophagus — the tube that connects the mouth and stomach. Poor functioning of the muscles in the upper and lower esophagus can make swallowing difficult and allow stomach acids to back up into the esophagus, leading to heartburn, inflammation and scarring of esophageal tissues.	
Lipoma	Situated just under your skin. They commonly occur in the neck, shoulders, back, abdomen, arms and thighs.	Soft and doughy to the touch. They also move easily with slight finger pressure.	Generally small. Lipomas are typically less than 2 inches (5 centimeters) in diameter, but they can grow.	Sometimes painful. Lipomas can be painful if they grow and press on nearby nerves or if they contain many blood vessels.	
Listeria infection	Fever	Muscle aches	Nausea	Diarrhea	
Liver cancer	Losing weight without trying	Loss of appetite	Upper abdominal pain	Nausea and vomiting	General weakness and fatigue	Abdominal swelling	Yellow discoloration of your skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice)	White, chalky stools	
Liver disease	Skin and eyes that appear yellowish (jaundice)	Abdominal pain and swelling	Swelling in the legs and ankles	Itchy skin	Dark urine color	Pale stool color, or bloody or tar-colored stool	Chronic fatigue	Nausea or vomiting	Loss of appetite	Tendency to bruise easily	
Liver hemangioma	Pain in the upper right abdomen	Feeling full after eating only a small amount of food	Lack of appetite	Nausea	Vomiting	
Long QT syndrome	Fainting. This is the most common sign of long QT syndrome. In people with long QT syndrome, fainting spells (syncope) are caused by the heart temporarily beating in an erratic way. These fainting spells may happen when you're excited, angry, scared or during exercise. Fainting in people with long QT syndrome can occur without warning, such as losing consciousness after being startled by a ringing telephone.        Signs and symptoms that you're about to faint include lightheadedness, heart palpitations, irregular heartbeat, weakness and blurred vision. However, in long QT syndrome, such warning signs before fainting are unusual.	Seizures. If the heart continues to beat erratically, the brain becomes increasingly deprived of oxygen. This can then cause generalized seizures.	Sudden death. Normally, the heart returns to its normal rhythm. If this doesn't happen spontaneously and paramedics don't arrive in time to convert the rhythm back to normal with an external defibrillator, sudden death will occur.	
Low blood pressure (hypotension)	Dizziness or lightheadedness	Fainting (syncope)	Lack of concentration	Blurred vision	Nausea	Cold, clammy, pale skin	Rapid, shallow breathing	Fatigue	Depression	Thirst	
Low sex drive in women	Has no interest in any type of sexual activity, including masturbation	Doesn't have sexual fantasies or thoughts, or only seldom has them	Is bothered by her lack of sexual activity or fantasies	
Low sperm count	Problems with sexual function — for example, low sex drive or difficulty maintaining an erection (erectile dysfunction)	Pain, swelling or a lump in the testicle area	Decreased facial or body hair or other signs of a chromosome or hormone abnormality	
Lung cancer	A new cough that doesn't go away	Changes in a chronic cough or "smoker's cough"	Coughing up blood, even a small amount	Shortness of breath	Chest pain	Wheezing	Hoarseness	Losing weight without trying	Bone pain	Headache	
Lupus	Fatigue and fever	Joint pain, stiffness and swelling	Butterfly-shaped rash on the face that covers the cheeks and bridge of the nose	Skin lesions that appear or worsen with sun exposure (photosensitivity)	Fingers and toes that turn white or blue when exposed to cold or during stressful periods (Raynaud's phenomenon)	Shortness of breath	Chest pain	Dry eyes	Headaches, confusion and memory loss	
Lyme disease	Rash. A small, red bump may appear at the site of the tick bite. This small bump is normal after a tick bite and doesn't indicate Lyme disease. However, over the next few days, the redness may expand forming a rash in a bull's-eye pattern, with a red outer ring surrounding a clear area. The rash, called erythema migrans, is one of the hallmarks of Lyme disease. Some people develop this rash at more than one place on their bodies.	Flu-like symptoms. Fever, chills, fatigue, body aches and a headache may accompany the rash.	
Lymphedema	Swelling of part or all of your arm or leg, including fingers or toes	A feeling of heaviness or tightness	Restricted range of motion	Aching or discomfort	Recurring infections	Hardening and thickening of the skin (fibrosis)	
Lynch syndrome	Colon cancer that occurs at a younger age, especially before age 50	A family history of colon cancer that occurs at a young age	A family history of endometrial cancer	A family history of other related cancers, including ovarian cancer, kidney cancer, stomach cancer, small intestine cancer, liver cancer and other cancers	
Macular degeneration, dry	The need for brighter light when reading or doing close work 	Increasing difficulty adapting to low light levels, such as when entering a dimly lit restaurant 	Increasing blurriness of printed words 	A decrease in the intensity or brightness of colors 	Difficulty recognizing faces 	A gradual increase in the haziness of your central or overall vision 	Crooked central vision 	A blurred or blind spot in the center of your field of vision 	Hallucinations of geometric shapes or people, in case of advanced macular degeneration 	
Macular degeneration, wet	Visual distortions, such as straight lines appearing wavy or crooked, a doorway or street sign looking lopsided, or objects appearing smaller or farther away than they really are	Decreased central vision	Decreased intensity or brightness of colors	Well-defined blurry spot or blind spot in your field of vision	Abrupt onset	Rapid worsening	Hallucinations of geometric shapes, animals or people, in cases of advanced macular degeneration	
Malaria	Moderate to severe shaking chills 	High fever 	Profuse sweating as body temperature falls 	
Male breast cancer	A painless lump or thickening in your breast tissue	Changes to the skin covering your breast, such as dimpling, puckering, redness or scaling	Changes to your nipple, such as redness or scaling, or a nipple that begins to turn inward	Discharge from your nipple	
Male hypogonadism	Female genitals	Ambiguous genitals — genitals that are neither clearly male nor clearly female	Underdeveloped male genitals	
Male infertility	The inability to conceive a child	Problems with sexual function — for example, difficulty with ejaculation, reduced sexual desire or difficulty maintaining an erection (erectile dysfunction)	Pain, swelling or a lump in the testicle area	Recurrent respiratory infections	Decreased facial or body hair or other signs of a chromosomal or hormonal abnormality	Having a lower than normal sperm count (fewer than 15 million sperm per milliliter of semen or a total sperm count of less than 39 million per ejaculate)	
Mammary duct ectasia	A dirty white, greenish or black nipple discharge from one or both nipples 	Tenderness in the nipple or surrounding breast tissue 	Redness of the nipple and sometimes the surrounding area 	A breast lump or thickening near the clogged duct 	A nipple that's turned inward (inverted) 	
Marfan syndrome	Tall and slender build	Disproportionately long arms, legs, fingers and toes	A breastbone that protrudes outward or dips inward	A high, arched palate and crowded teeth	Heart murmurs	Extreme nearsightedness	An abnormally curved spine	Flat feet	
Mastitis	Breast tenderness or warmth to the touch	Generally feeling ill (malaise)	Swelling of the breast	Pain or a burning sensation continuously or while breast-feeding	Skin redness, often in a wedge-shaped pattern	Fever of 101 F (38.3 C) or greater	
Muscular dystrophy	Frequent falls	Difficulty getting up from a lying or sitting position	Trouble running and jumping	Waddling gait	Walking on the toes	Large calf muscles	Muscle pain and stiffness	Learning disabilities	
Measles	Fever	Dry cough	Runny nose	Sore throat	Inflamed eyes (conjunctivitis)	Tiny white spots with bluish-white centers on a red background found inside the mouth on the inner lining of the cheek — also called Koplik's spots	A skin rash made up of large, flat blotches that often flow into one another	
Melanoma	A change in an existing mole	The development of a new pigmented or unusual-looking growth on your skin	
Membranous nephropathy	Swelling in the legs and ankles	Weight gain	Fatigue	Poor appetite	Frothy urine	Elevated fat levels in the blood (hyperlipidemia)	Increased protein levels in the urine (proteinuria)	Decreased protein levels in the blood, particularly of the protein albumin	
Meniere's disease	Recurring episodes of vertigo. Vertigo is similar to the sensation you experience if you spin around quickly several times and suddenly stop. You feel as if the room is still spinning, and you lose your balance. Episodes of vertigo occur without warning and usually last 20 minutes to two hours or more, up to 24 hours. Severe vertigo can cause nausea and vomiting. 	Hearing loss. Hearing loss in Meniere's disease may fluctuate, particularly early in the course of the disease. Eventually, most people experience some degree of permanent hearing loss. 	Ringing in the ear (tinnitus). Tinnitus is the perception of a ringing, buzzing, roaring, whistling or hissing sound in your ear. 	Feeling of fullness in the ear. People with Meniere's disease often feel aural fullness or increased pressure in the ear. 	
Meningioma	Changes in vision, such as seeing double or blurriness	Headaches that worsen with time	Hearing loss	Memory loss	Loss of smell	Seizures	Weakness in your arms or legs	
Meningitis	Sudden high fever	Severe headache that isn't easily confused with other types of headache	Stiff neck	Vomiting or nausea with headache	Confusion or difficulty concentrating	Seizures	Sleepiness or difficulty waking up	Sensitivity to light	Lack of interest in drinking and eating	Skin rash in some cases, such as in meningococcal meningitis	
Menopause	Irregular periods	Vaginal dryness	Hot flashes	Night sweats	Sleep problems	Mood changes	Weight gain and slowed metabolism	Thinning hair and dry skin	Loss of breast fullness	
Menorrhagia	Soaking through one or more sanitary pads or tampons every hour for several consecutive hours	Needing to use double sanitary protection to control your menstrual flow	Needing to wake up to change sanitary protection during the night	Bleeding for longer than a week	Passing blood clots with menstrual flow for more than one day	Restricting daily activities due to heavy menstrual flow	Symptoms of anemia, such as tiredness, fatigue or shortness of breath	
Menstrual cramps	Throbbing or cramping pain in your lower abdomen that may be intense	Dull, constant ache	Pain that radiates to your lower back and thighs	
Mental illness	Feeling sad or down	Confused thinking or reduced ability to concentrate	Excessive fears or worries, or extreme feelings of guilt	Extreme mood changes of highs and lows	Withdrawal from friends and activities	Significant tiredness, low energy or problems sleeping	Detachment from reality (delusions), paranoia or hallucinations	Inability to cope with daily problems or stress 	Trouble understanding and relating to situations and to people 	Alcohol or drug abuse	Major changes in eating habits 	Sex drive changes	Excessive anger, hostility or violence	Suicidal thinking	
Meralgia paresthetica	Tingling and numbness in the outer (lateral) part of your thigh	Burning pain in or on the surface of the outer part of your thigh	
Mesenteric lymphadenitis	Abdominal pain, often centered on the lower, right side, but the pain can sometimes be more widespread 	General abdominal tenderness 	Fever 	
Mesothelioma	Chest pain under the rib cage	Painful coughing	Shortness of breath	Unusual lumps of tissue under the skin on your chest	Unexplained weight loss	
Metachromatic leukodystrophy	Infantile form, occurring between ages 6 months and 2 years	Juvenile form, occurring between ages 3 and 6 (early juvenile) or between ages 6 and 16 (late juvenile)	Adult form, occurring at age 17 or older	
Metatarsalgia	Sharp, aching or burning pain in the ball of your foot — the part of the sole just behind your toes	Pain that worsens when you stand, run, flex your feet or walk — especially barefoot on a hard surface — and improves when you rest	Sharp or shooting pain, numbness, or tingling in your toes	A feeling of having a pebble in your shoe	
Microcephaly	A head size significantly smaller than that of other children of the same age and sex	
Microscopic colitis	Chronic watery diarrhea	Abdominal pain or cramps	Weight loss	Nausea	Fecal incontinence	
Migraine	Constipation	Depression	Food cravings	Hyperactivity	Irritability	Neck stiffness	Uncontrollable yawning	
Migraine with aura	Blind spots (scotomas), which are sometimes outlined by simple geometric designs 	Zigzag lines that gradually float across your field of vision 	Shimmering spots or stars 	Changes in vision 	Flashes of light 	
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI)	You forget things more often.	You forget important events such as appointments or social engagements.	You lose your train of thought or the thread of conversations, books or movies.	You feel increasingly overwhelmed by making decisions, planning steps to accomplish a task or interpreting instructions.	You start to have trouble finding your way around familiar environments.	You become more impulsive or show increasingly poor judgment.	Your family and friends notice any of these changes.	
Milk allergy	Hives	Wheezing	Vomiting	
Miscarriage	Vaginal spotting or bleeding	Pain or cramping in your abdomen or lower back	Fluid or tissue passing from your vagina	
Mitral valve disease	    Mitral valve regurgitation. In this condition, the flaps (leaflets) of the mitral valve don't close tightly, causing blood to leak backward into the left atrium of your heart. If not treated, it can result in heart muscle damage.    The most common cause of blood leakage is mitral valve prolapse, in which the leaflets bulge back into the left atrium as your heart contracts.    	Mitral valve stenosis. In this condition, the flaps of the mitral valve become thick or stiff, and they may fuse together. This results in a narrowed valve opening and reduced blood flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle.	
Mitral valve prolapse	A racing or irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia)	Dizziness or lightheadedness	Difficulty breathing or shortness of breath, often when lying flat or during physical activity	Fatigue	Chest pain that's not caused by a heart attack or coronary artery disease	
Mitral valve stenosis	Shortness of breath, especially with exertion or when you lie down	Fatigue, especially during increased physical activity	Swollen feet or legs	Heart palpitations — sensations of a rapid, fluttering heartbeat	Dizziness or fainting	Heavy coughing, sometimes with blood-tinged sputum	Chest discomfort or chest pain	Severe headache, trouble speaking or other symptoms of stroke	
Mittelschmerz	On one side of your lower abdomen	Dull and cramp-like	Sharp and sudden	Accompanied by mild vaginal bleeding or discharge	Rarely, severe	
Mixed connective tissue disease	General feeling of being unwell. This malaise may be accompanied by increased fatigue and a mild fever.	Cold and numb fingers. One of the most common early indicators is known as Raynaud's phenomenon — in which your fingers feel cold and numb, often in response to cold or stress. Fingers may turn white and then purplish blue when the blood vessels constrict. After warming, the blood vessels relax, blood flow resumes and the fingers turn red. Toes also can be affected.	Swollen fingers. Many people who have mixed connective tissue disease experience swelling in their hands and fingers, sometimes to the point where the fingers resemble sausages.	Muscle and joint pain. Mixed connective tissue disease also can result in muscle aches and joint swelling and pain. In some cases, the joints may become deformed, similar to what is seen in rheumatoid arthritis.	
Molar pregnancy	Dark brown to bright red vaginal bleeding during the first trimester	Severe nausea and vomiting	Sometimes vaginal passage of grape-like cysts	Rarely pelvic pressure or pain	
Mold allergy	Sneezing 	Runny or stuffy nose 	Cough and postnasal drip 	Itchy eyes, nose and throat 	Watery eyes 	
Moles	Color and texture. Moles can be brown, tan, black, red, blue or pink. They can be smooth, wrinkled, flat or raised. They may have hair growing from them.	Shape. They can vary in shape from oval to round.	Size. Moles are usually less than 1/4 inch (about 6 millimeters) in diameter — the size of a pencil eraser. Rarely, moles present at birth can be much bigger, covering wide areas of the face, torso or a limb.	
Molluscum contagiosum	Are small — typically under about a quarter inch (approximately 2 to 5 millimeters) in diameter	Characteristically have a small indentation or dot at the top	Can become red and inflamed	Can be easily removed by scratching or rubbing, which can spread the virus to adjacent skin	
Mononucleosis	Fatigue 	General feeling of unwellness (malaise) 	Sore throat, perhaps a strep throat that doesn't get better with antibiotic use 	Fever 	Swollen lymph nodes in your neck and armpits 	Swollen tonsils 	Headache 	Skin rash 	Soft, swollen spleen 	
Mood disorders	Major depressive disorder — prolonged and persistent periods of extreme sadness	Bipolar disorder — also called manic depression or bipolar affective disorder, depression that includes alternating times of extreme sadness (depression) and extreme happiness (mania)	Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) — a form of depression most often associated with fewer hours of daylight in the far northern and southern latitudes from late fall to early spring	Cyclothymic disorder — a disorder that causes emotional ups and downs that are less extreme than bipolar disorder	Premenstrual dysphoric disorder — mood changes and irritability that occur during the premenstrual phase of a woman's cycle and go away with the onset of menses	Persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia) — a long-term (chronic) form of depression	Disruptive mood dysregulation disorder — a disorder of chronic, severe and persistent irritability in children that often includes frequent temper outbursts that are inconsistent with the child's developmental age	Depression related to medical illness — a persistent depressed mood and a significant loss of pleasure in most or all activities that's directly related to the physical effects of another medical condition	
Morning sickness	The nausea or vomiting is severe	You pass only a small amount of urine or it's dark in color	You can't keep down liquids	You feel dizzy or faint when you stand up	Your heart races	You vomit blood	
Morphea	Hardening and thickening of the skin.	Discoloration of the affected skin to look lighter or darker than the surrounding area.	Oval-shaped patches that may change colors and gradually develop a whitish center.	Linear patches, especially when on arms and legs	Loss of hair and sweat glands in the affected area over time.	
Morton's neuroma	A feeling as if you're standing on a pebble in your shoe	A burning pain in the ball of your foot that may radiate into your toes	Tingling or numbness in your toes	
Mosquito bites	A puffy, white bump that appears a few minutes after the bite	A hard, itchy, reddish-brown bump, or multiple bumps, appearing a day or so after the bite or bites	Swelling around bites	Small blisters instead of hard bumps	Dark spots that look like bruises	
Mouth cancer	A sore that doesn't heal	A lump or thickening of the skin or lining of your mouth	A white or reddish patch on the inside of your mouth	Loose teeth	Poorly fitting dentures	Tongue pain	Jaw pain or stiffness	Difficult or painful chewing	Difficult or painful swallowing	Sore throat	Feeling that something is caught in your throat	
Multiple sclerosis	Numbness or weakness in one or more limbs that typically occurs on one side of your body at a time, or the legs and trunk	Partial or complete loss of vision, usually in one eye at a time, often with pain during eye movement	Double vision or blurring of vision	Tingling or pain in parts of your body	Electric-shock sensations that occur with certain neck movements, especially bending the neck forward	Tremor, lack of coordination or unsteady gait	Slurred speech	Fatigue	Dizziness	Problems with bowel and bladder function	
Multiple system atrophy (MSA)	Rigid muscles and difficulty bending your arms and legs	Slow movement (bradykinesia)	Tremors (rare in MSA compared with classic Parkinson's disease)	Impaired posture and balance	
Multiple myeloma	Bone pain, especially in your spine or chest	Nausea	Constipation	Loss of appetite	Mental fogginess or confusion	Fatigue	Frequent infections	Weight loss	Weakness or numbness in your legs	Excessive thirst	
Mumps	Swollen, painful salivary glands on one or both sides of your face (parotitis)	Fever	Headache	Weakness and fatigue	Loss of appetite	Pain while chewing or swallowing	
Muscle cramp	Cause severe discomfort 	Are associated with leg swelling, redness or skin changes 	Are associated with muscle weakness 	Happen frequently 	Don't improve with self-care 	Aren't associated with an obvious cause, such as strenuous exercise 	
Myasthenia gravis	Drooping of one or both eyelids (ptosis).	Double vision (diplopia), which may be horizontal or vertical, and improves or resolves when one eye is closed.	
Myelodysplastic syndromes	Fatigue	Shortness of breath	Unusual paleness (pallor) due to anemia	Easy or unusual bruising or bleeding	Pinpoint-sized red spots just beneath your skin caused by bleeding (petechiae)	Frequent infections	
Myelofibrosis	Feeling tired, weak or short of breath, usually because of anemia	Pain or fullness below your ribs on the left side, due to an enlarged spleen	Pale skin	Easy bruising	Easy bleeding	Excessive sweating during sleep (night sweats)	Fever	Frequent infections	Bone pain	
Myocardial ischemia	Chest pressure or pain, typically on the left side of the body (angina pectoris)	Neck or jaw pain	Shoulder or arm pain	A fast heartbeat	Shortness of breath	Nausea and vomiting	
Myocarditis	Chest pain	A rapid or abnormal heartbeat (arrhythmia)	Shortness of breath, at rest or during physical activity	Fluid retention with swelling of your legs, ankles and feet	Fatigue	Other signs and symptoms you'd have with a viral infection, such as a headache, body aches, joint pain, fever, a sore throat or diarrhea	
Myoclonus	Sudden	Brief	Involuntary	Shock-like	Variable in intensity and frequency	Localized to one part of the body or all over the body	Sometimes severe enough to interfere with eating, speaking or walking	
Myofascial pain syndrome	Deep, aching pain in a muscle	Pain that persists or worsens	A tender knot in a muscle	Difficulty sleeping due to pain	
Naegleria infection	A change in the sense of smell or taste 	Fever 	Sudden headache 	Stiff neck 	Sensitivity to light 	Nausea and vomiting 	Confusion 	Loss of balance 	Sleepiness 	Seizures 	Hallucinations 	
Nail fungus	Thickened	Brittle, crumbly or ragged	Distorted in shape	Dull, with no shine	A dark color, caused by debris building up under your nail	
Narcissistic personality disorder	Having an exaggerated sense of self-importance	Expecting to be recognized as superior even without achievements that warrant it	Exaggerating your achievements and talents	Being preoccupied with fantasies about success, power, brilliance, beauty or the perfect mate	Believing that you are superior and can only be understood by or associate with equally special people	Requiring constant admiration	Having a sense of entitlement	Expecting special favors and unquestioning compliance with your expectations	Taking advantage of others to get what you want	Having an inability or unwillingness to recognize the needs and feelings of others	Being envious of others and believing others envy you	Behaving in an arrogant or haughty manner	
Narcolepsy	    Excessive daytime sleepiness. People with narcolepsy fall asleep without warning, anywhere, anytime. For example, you may suddenly nod off while working or talking with friends. You may sleep for a few minutes or up to a half-hour before awakening and feeling refreshed, but eventually you fall asleep again.    You also may experience decreased alertness throughout the day. Excessive daytime sleepiness usually is the first symptom to appear and is often the most troublesome, making it difficult for you to concentrate and fully function.    	    Sudden loss of muscle tone. This condition, called cataplexy (KAT-uh-plek-see), can cause a number of physical changes, from slurred speech to complete weakness of most muscles, and may last for a few seconds to a few minutes.    Cataplexy is uncontrollable and is triggered by intense emotions, usually positive ones such as laughter or excitement, but sometimes fear, surprise or anger. For example, your head may droop uncontrollably or your knees may suddenly buckle when you laugh.    Some people with narcolepsy experience only one or two episodes of cataplexy a year, while others have numerous episodes daily. Not everyone with narcolepsy experiences cataplexy.    	    Sleep paralysis. People with narcolepsy often experience a temporary inability to move or speak while falling asleep or upon waking. These episodes are usually brief — lasting one or two minutes — but can be frightening. You may be aware of the condition and have no difficulty recalling it afterward, even if you had no control over what was happening to you.    This sleep paralysis mimics the type of temporary paralysis that normally occurs during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, the period of sleep during which most dreaming occurs. This temporary immobility during REM sleep may prevent your body from acting out dream activity.    Not everyone with sleep paralysis has narcolepsy, however. Many people without narcolepsy experience some episodes of sleep paralysis, especially in young adulthood.    	Hallucinations. These hallucinations are called hypnagogic hallucinations if occurring as you fall asleep and hypnopompic hallucinations if occurring upon waking. Because you may be semi-awake when you begin dreaming, you experience your dreams as reality, and they may be particularly vivid and frightening	
Nasal polyps	A runny nose	Persistent stuffiness	Postnasal drip	Decreased or absent sense of smell	Loss of sense of taste	Facial pain or headache	Pain in your upper teeth	A sense of pressure over your forehead and face	Snoring	Itching around your eyes	
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma	A lump in your neck caused by a swollen lymph node 	Blood in your saliva 	Bloody discharge from your nose 	Nasal congestion 	Hearing loss 	Frequent ear infections 	Headaches 	
Nearsightedness	Blurry vision when looking at distant objects	The need to squint or partially close the eyelids to see clearly	Headaches caused by eyestrain	Difficulty seeing while driving a vehicle, especially at night (night myopia)	
Nephrotic syndrome	Severe swelling (edema), particularly around your eyes and in your ankles and feet	Foamy urine, which may be caused by excess protein in your urine	Weight gain due to excess fluid retention	
Neuroblastoma	Abdominal pain	A mass under the skin that isn't tender when touched	Changes in bowel habits, such as diarrhea	Swelling in the legs	
Neurodermatitis	Itchy skin in a single limited area	Leathery or scaly texture to the skin	Raised, rough patch that is red or darker than the rest of your skin	
Neuroendocrine tumors	Carcinoid tumors of the lung, intestinal tract or thymus	Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor, also known as islet cell cancer	Medullary thyroid carcinoma	Merkel cell carcinoma, also known as neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin	Pheochromocytoma of the adrenal gland	Adrenal cancer	Small cell carcinoma, most commonly of the lung	Large cell carcinoid tumor, most commonly of the lung	
Neurofibromatosis	Flat, light brown spots on the skin. These harmless spots, also called cafe au lait (ka-FAY oh LAY) spots, are common in many people. If you have more than six of them, it's a strong indication of NF1. In NF1, cafe au lait spots are usually present at birth or appear during the first years of life and then stabilize. They aren't serious but can sometimes be a cosmetic concern.	Freckling in the armpits or groin area. Freckling usually appears by age 4 or 5.	Soft bumps on or under the skin (neurofibromas). Neurofibromas are benign tumors that can be located anywhere in the body. Many people develop tumors in the skin or under the skin, but neurofibromas can also grow inside of the body. Sometimes, a growth will involve multiple nerves (plexiform neurofibroma).	Tiny bumps on the iris of your eye (Lisch nodules). Lisch nodules — harmless lesions in your eye — can't easily be seen just by looking at them, and they don't affect your vision. However, your doctor can detect these lesions using a special instrument.	Bone deformities. Abnormalities in the way bones grow and a deficiency in bone mineral density can cause bone deformities such as a curved spine (scoliosis) or bowed lower leg.	Learning disabilities. Impaired thinking skills (cognition) are common in children with NF1, but are usually mild. Children may have difficulty with language and visual-spatial skills. Children with NF1 often may have a specific learning disability, such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).	Larger than average head size. Children with NF1 tend to have a larger than average head size and higher brain volume, but it's unknown whether this is related to cognitive impairment.	Short stature. Children with NF1 often have a short stature and are below average in height.	
Nickel allergy	Rash or bumps on the skin 	Itching, which may be severe 	Redness or changes in skin color 	Dry patches of skin that may resemble a burn 	Blisters and draining fluid in severe cases 	
Nicotine dependence	You can't stop smoking. You've made one or more serious, but unsuccessful, attempts to stop. 	You experience withdrawal symptoms when you try to stop. Your attempts at stopping have caused physical and mood-related signs and symptoms, such as strong cravings, anxiety, irritability, restlessness, difficulty concentrating, depressed mood, frustration, anger, increased hunger, insomnia, constipation or diarrhea. 	You keep smoking despite health problems. Even though you've developed problems with your lungs or your heart, you haven't been able to stop. 	You give up social or recreational activities in order to smoke. You may stop going to smoke-free restaurants or stop socializing with certain family members or friends because you can't smoke in these locations or situations. 	
Nightmare disorder	Your dream seems vivid and real, often becoming more disturbing as the dream unfolds	Your dream storyline is usually related to threats to your safety or survival	Your dream wakes you	You feel scared, anxious, angry, sad or disgusted as a result of your dream	You feel sweaty or have a pounding heartbeat, but do not leave the bed	You can think clearly upon awakening and can recall details of your dream	Your dream occurs near the end of your sleep time	Your dream keeps you from falling back to sleep easily	
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease	Fatigue	Pain in the upper right abdomen	Weight loss	
Nonallergic rhinitis	Stuffy nose 	Runny nose 	Sneezing 	Mucus (phlegm) in the throat (postnasal drip) 	
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma	Painless, swollen lymph nodes in your neck, armpits or groin	Abdominal pain or swelling	Chest pain, coughing or trouble breathing	Fatigue	Fever	Night sweats	Weight loss	
Nonmelanoma skin cancer	Basal cell carcinoma	Squamous cell carcinoma	Angiosarcoma	Cutaneous B-cell lymphoma	Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma	Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans	Merkel cell carcinoma 	Sebaceous gland carcinoma	Cancer that spreads from other areas of the body to the skin, such as breast cancer and mouth cancer	
Nonulcer stomach pain	A burning sensation or discomfort in your upper abdomen or lower chest, sometimes relieved by food or antacids	Bloating	Belching	An early feeling of fullness when eating	Nausea	
Noonan syndrome	Early infancy. A baby younger than 1 month old may have wide-set and down-slanting eyes, low-set ears, a deep groove and wide peaks in the upper lip, a short neck, and a low hairline on the back of the head. 	Infancy. An infant may have prominent eyes with a downward slant and thickened lids, and a nose that's depressed at the top, with a wide base and bulbous tip. 	Childhood. A child's face may appear expressionless, and his or her facial features may appear coarse or elongated. 	Adolescence. An adolescent's face is typically wide at the forehead tapering to a pointed chin. The facial features become sharper and the eyes are less prominent, and the neck lengthens to reveal extra folds of skin (webbed neck) or prominent neck (trapezius) muscles. 	Adulthood. When a child with Noonan syndrome reaches adulthood, the crease that runs from the edge of the nose to the corner of the mouth becomes prominent and the skin may be wrinkled and appear transparent. 	
Norovirus infection	Nausea	Vomiting	Abdominal pain or cramps	Watery or loose diarrhea	Malaise	Low-grade fever	Muscle pain	
Obsessive-compulsive disorder	Fear of contamination or dirt	Having things orderly and symmetrical	Aggressive or horrific thoughts about harming yourself or others	Unwanted thoughts, including aggression, or sexual or religious subjects	
Occupational asthma	Wheezing, sometimes just at night	Coughing	Shortness of breath	Chest tightness	
Ocular rosacea	Dry eyes	Burning or stinging in the eyes	Itchy eyes	Grittiness or feeling of having a foreign body in the eye or eyes	Blurred vision	Sensitivity to light (photophobia)	Redness (erythema)	Visibly dilated small blood vessels on the white part of the eye	Red, swollen eyelids	Sties	Tearing	
Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD)	Includes at least four symptoms from any of these categories — angry and irritable mood; argumentative and defiant behavior; or vindictiveness	Occurs with at least one individual who is not a sibling	Occurs on its own, rather than as part of the course of another mental health problem, such as a substance use disorder, depression or bipolar disorder	Lasts at least six months	
Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome	Mild to moderate abdominal pain that may come and go	Abdominal bloating or increased waist size	Nausea	Vomiting	Diarrhea	Tenderness in the area of your ovaries	
Optic neuritis	Pain. Most people who develop optic neuritis experience eye pain that's worsened by eye movement. Sometimes the pain feels like a dull ache behind the eye.	Vision loss. Most people experience at least some temporary reduction in vision, but the extent of vision loss varies. Noticeable vision loss usually develops over hours or days. Exercise or a hot bath or shower may exaggerate the vision loss. Vision loss is permanent in some cases.	Loss of color vision. Optic neuritis often affects color perception. You might notice that colors appear less vivid than normal.	Flashing lights. Some people with optic neuritis report seeing flashing or flickering lights.	
Oral thrush	Creamy white lesions on your tongue, inner cheeks, and sometimes on the roof of your mouth, gums and tonsils	Slightly raised lesions with a cottage cheese-like appearance	Redness or soreness that may be severe enough to cause difficulty eating or swallowing	Slight bleeding if the lesions are rubbed or scraped	Cracking and redness at the corners of your mouth (especially in denture wearers)	A cottony feeling in your mouth	Loss of taste	
Oral lichen planus	Lacy, white, raised patches of tissues	Red, swollen, tender patches of tissues	Open sores	
Orchitis	Swelling in one or both testicles 	Pain ranging from mild to severe 	Tenderness in one or both testicles, which may last for weeks 	Fever 	Nausea and vomiting 	
Orthostatic hypotension (postural hypotension)	Feeling lightheaded or dizzy after standing up	Blurry vision	Weakness	Fainting (syncope)	Confusion	Nausea	
Osteoarthritis	Pain. Your joint may hurt during or after movement.	Tenderness. Your joint may feel tender when you apply light pressure to it.	Stiffness. Joint stiffness may be most noticeable when you wake up in the morning or after a period of inactivity.	Loss of flexibility. You may not be able to move your joint through its full range of motion.	Grating sensation. You may hear or feel a grating sensation when you use the joint.	Bone spurs. These extra bits of bone, which feel like hard lumps, may form around the affected joint.	
Osteochondritis dissecans	Pain. The most common symptom of osteochondritis dissecans, pain may be triggered by physical activity — walking up stairs, climbing a hill or playing sports. 	Joint popping or locking. Your joint may pop or get stuck in one position if a loose fragment gets caught between bones during movement. 	Joint weakness. You may feel that your joint is "giving way" or weakening. 	Decreased range of motion. You may be unable to straighten your leg or arm completely. 	Swelling and tenderness. The skin around your joint may become swollen and tender. 	
Osteomyelitis	Fever or chills 	Irritability or lethargy in young children 	Pain in the area of the infection 	Swelling, warmth and redness over the area of the infection 	
Osteoporosis	Back pain, caused by a fractured or collapsed vertebra	Loss of height over time	A stooped posture	A bone fracture that occurs much more easily than expected	
Ovarian cancer	Abdominal bloating or swelling	Quickly feeling full when eating	Weight loss	Discomfort in the pelvis area	Changes in bowel habits, such as constipation	A frequent need to urinate	
Ovarian cysts	Pelvic pain — a dull ache that may radiate to your lower back and thighs	Pelvic pain shortly before your period begins or just before it ends	Pelvic pain during intercourse (dyspareunia)	Pain during bowel movements or pressure on your bowels	Nausea, vomiting or breast tenderness like that experienced during pregnancy	Fullness or heaviness in your abdomen	Pressure on your bladder that causes you to urinate more frequently or have difficulty emptying your bladder completely	
Overactive bladder	Feel a sudden urge to urinate that's difficult to control	Experience urge incontinence — the involuntary loss of urine immediately following an urgent need to urinate	Urinate frequently, usually eight or more times in 24 hours	Awaken two or more times in the night to urinate (nocturia)	
Peripheral artery disease	Painful cramping in your hip, thigh or calf muscles after activity, such as walking or climbing stairs (intermittent claudication)	Leg numbness or weakness	Coldness in your lower leg or foot, especially when compared with the other side	Sores on your toes, feet or legs that won't heal	A change in the color of your legs	Hair loss or slower hair growth on your feet and legs	Slower growth of your toenails	Shiny skin on your legs	No pulse or a weak pulse in your legs or feet	Erectile dysfunction in men	
Paget's disease of bone	Pelvis. Paget's disease of bone in the pelvis can cause hip pain. 	Skull. An overgrowth of bone in the skull can cause hearing loss or headaches. 	Spine. If your spine is affected, nerve roots can become compressed. This can cause pain, tingling and numbness in an arm or leg. 	Leg. As the bones weaken, they may bend — causing you to become bowlegged. Enlarged and misshapen bones in your legs can put extra stress on nearby joints, which may cause wear-and-tear arthritis in your knee or hip. 	
Paget's disease of the breast	Flaky or scaly skin on your nipple 	Crusty, oozing or hardened skin resembling eczema on the nipple, areola or both 	Itching 	Redness 	A tingling or burning sensation 	Straw-colored or bloody nipple discharge 	A flattened or turned-in (inverted) nipple 	A lump in the breast 	Thickening skin on the breast 	
Painful intercourse (dyspareunia)	Pain only at sexual penetration (entry)	Pain with every penetration, even while putting in a tampon	New pain after previously pain-free intercourse	Deep pain during thrusting	Burning pain or aching pain	Throbbing pain, lasting hours after intercourse	
Progressive supranuclear palsy	A loss of balance while walking. A tendency to fall backward can occur very early in the disease.	An inability to aim your eyes properly. You may have particular difficulty looking downward, or experience blurring and doubled vision. This difficulty with focusing the eyes can make some people spill food or appear disinterested in conversation because of poor eye contact.	
Pancreatic cancer	Upper abdominal pain that may radiate to your back 	Yellowing of your skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice) 	Loss of appetite 	Weight loss 	Depression 	Blood clots 	
Pancreatic cysts	Persistent abdominal pain, which may radiate to your back 	A mass you can feel in your upper abdomen 	Nausea and vomiting 	
Pancreatitis	Upper abdominal pain	Abdominal pain that radiates to your back	Abdominal pain that feels worse after eating	Nausea	Vomiting	Tenderness when touching the abdomen	
Panic attacks	Sense of impending doom or danger 	Fear of loss of control or death 	Rapid heart rate 	Sweating 	Trembling 	Shortness of breath 	Hyperventilation 	Chills 	Hot flashes 	Nausea 	Abdominal cramping 	Chest pain 	Headache 	Dizziness 	Faintness 	Tightness in your throat 	Trouble swallowing 	
Paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system	Difficulty walking 	Difficulty maintaining balance 	Loss of muscle coordination 	Loss of muscle tone or weakness 	Loss of fine motor skills, such as picking up objects 	Difficulty swallowing 	Slurred speech 	Memory loss and other thinking (cognitive) impairment 	Vision problems 	Sleep disturbances 	Seizures 	Sensory disturbances 	Unusual involuntary movements 	
Personality disorders	Pervasive distrust and suspicion of others and their motives	Unjustified belief that others are trying to harm or deceive you	Unjustified suspicion of the loyalty or trustworthiness of others	Hesitant to confide in others due to unreasonable fear that others will use the information against you	Perception of innocent remarks or nonthreatening situations as personal insults or attacks	Angry or hostile reaction to perceived slights or insults	Tendency to hold grudges	Unjustified, recurrent suspicion that spouse or sexual partner is unfaithful	
Parkinson's disease	Tremor. Your tremor, or shaking, usually begins in a limb, often your hand or fingers. You may notice a back-and-forth rubbing of your thumb and forefinger known as a pill-rolling tremor. One characteristic of Parkinson's disease is a tremor of your hand when it is relaxed (at rest).	Slowed movement (bradykinesia). Over time, Parkinson's disease may reduce your ability to move and slow your movement, making simple tasks difficult and time-consuming. Your steps may become shorter when you walk, or you may find it difficult to get out of a chair. Also, you may drag your feet as you try to walk, making it difficult to move.	Rigid muscles. Muscle stiffness may occur in any part of your body. The stiff muscles can limit your range of motion and cause you pain.	Impaired posture and balance. Your posture may become stooped, or you may have balance problems as a result of Parkinson's disease.	Loss of automatic movements. In Parkinson's disease, you may have a decreased ability to perform unconscious movements, including blinking, smiling or swinging your arms when you walk. You may no longer gesture when talking.	Speech changes. You may have speech problems as a result of Parkinson's disease. You may speak softly, quickly, slur or hesitate before talking. Your speech may be more of a monotone rather than with the usual inflections. A speech-language pathologist may help improve your speech problems. 	Writing changes. Writing may appear small and become difficult.	
Parvovirus infection	Sore throat 	Slight fever 	Upset stomach 	Headache 	Fatigue 	Itching 	
Patellar tendinitis	At first be present only as you begin physical activity or just after an intense workout	Worsen until it interferes with playing your sport	Eventually interfere with daily movements such as climbing stairs or rising from a chair	
Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA)	Poor eating, which leads to poor growth	Sweating with crying or eating	Persistent fast breathing or breathlessness	Easy tiring	Rapid heart rate	
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)	Irregular periods. This is the most common characteristic. Examples include menstrual intervals longer than 35 days; fewer than eight menstrual cycles a year; failure to menstruate for four months or longer; and prolonged periods that may be scant or heavy.	Excess androgen. Elevated levels of male hormones (androgens) may result in physical signs, such as excess facial and body hair (hirsutism), adult acne or severe adolescent acne, and male-pattern baldness (androgenic alopecia).	Polycystic ovaries. Polycystic ovaries become enlarged and contain numerous small fluid-filled sacs which surround the eggs.	
Peanut allergy	Skin reactions, such as hives, redness or swelling	Itching or tingling in or around the mouth and throat	Digestive problems, such as diarrhea, stomach cramps, nausea or vomiting	Tightening of the throat	Shortness of breath or wheezing	Runny nose	
Pectus excavatum	Decreased exercise tolerance	Rapid heartbeat or heart palpitations	Recurrent respiratory infections	Wheezing or coughing	Chest pain	Heart murmur	Fatigue	
Pediatric white blood cell disorders	Low white blood cell count (leukopenia) means having too few leukocytes circulating in the blood. A long-term low white blood cell count increases the risk of infections and may be caused by a number of different diseases and conditions.	High white blood cell count (leukocytosis) means having too many leukocytes circulating in the blood, usually from having an infection. A number of different diseases and conditions may cause a long-term high white blood cell count.	
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID)	Pain in your lower abdomen and pelvis	Heavy vaginal discharge with an unpleasant odor	Irregular menstrual bleeding	Pain during intercourse	Fever	Painful or difficult urination	
Pemphigus	Pemphigus vulgaris. The most common form, pemphigus vulgaris usually begins with blisters in your mouth, which then erupt on your skin. Blisters can also break out on the mucous membranes of your genitals. The blisters typically are painful, but don't itch. Blisters in your mouth or throat may make it hard to swallow and to eat. 	Pemphigus foliaceus. This type doesn't usually affect mucous membranes. The blisters, which usually begin on your face and scalp and later erupt on your chest and back, usually aren't painful. They tend to be crusty and itchy. 	
Penicillin allergy	Skin rash	Hives	Itching	Fever	Swelling	Shortness of breath	Wheezing	Runny nose	Itchy, watery eyes	Anaphylaxis	
Peptic ulcer	Be felt anywhere from your navel up to your breastbone	Be worse when your stomach is empty	Flare at night	Often be temporarily relieved by eating certain foods that buffer stomach acid or by taking an acid-reducing medication	Disappear and then return for a few days or weeks	
Pericardial effusion	Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing (dyspnea)	Discomfort when breathing while lying down (orthopnea)	Chest pain, usually behind the breastbone or on the left side of the chest that often feels worse when you breathe and feels better when you are sitting up, rather than lying down	Cough	Low-grade fever	Rapid heart rate	
Pericarditis	Sharp, piercing chest pain over the center or left side of the chest	Shortness of breath when reclining	Heart palpitations	Low-grade fever	An overall sense of weakness, fatigue or feeling sick	Cough	Abdominal or leg swelling	
Perimenopause	Menstrual irregularity. As ovulation becomes more unpredictable, the length of time between periods may be longer or shorter, your flow may be light to heavy, and you may skip some periods. If you have a persistent change of seven days or more in the length of your menstrual cycle, you may be in early perimenopause. If you have a space of 60 days or more between periods, you're likely in late perimenopause. 	Hot flashes and sleep problems. Many women experience hot flashes during perimenopause. The intensity, length and frequency vary. Sleep problems are often due to hot flashes or night sweats, but sometimes sleep becomes unpredictable even without them. 	Mood changes. Some women experience mood swings, irritability or increased risk of depression during perimenopause, but the cause of these symptoms may be sleep disruption caused by hot flashes. Mood changes may also be caused by factors not related to the hormonal changes of perimenopause. 	Vaginal and bladder problems. When estrogen levels diminish, your vaginal tissues may lose lubrication and elasticity, making intercourse painful. Low estrogen levels may also leave you more vulnerable to urinary or vaginal infections. Loss of tissue tone may contribute to urinary incontinence. 	Decreasing fertility. As ovulation becomes irregular, your ability to conceive decreases. However, as long as you're having periods, pregnancy is still possible. If you wish to avoid pregnancy, use birth control until you've had no periods for 12 months. 	Changes in sexual function. During perimenopause, sexual arousal and desire may change. But for most women who had satisfactory sexual intimacy before menopause, this will likely continue through perimenopause and beyond. 	Loss of bone. With declining estrogen levels, you start to lose bone more quickly than you replace it, increasing your risk of osteoporosis — a disease that causes fragile bones. 	Changing cholesterol levels. Declining estrogen levels may lead to unfavorable changes in your blood cholesterol levels, including an increase in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol — the "bad" cholesterol — which contributes to an increased risk of heart disease. At the same time, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol — the "good" cholesterol — decreases in many women as they age, which also increases the risk of heart disease. 	
Periodontitis	Swollen gums	Bright red or purplish gums	Gums that feel tender when touched	Gums that pull away from your teeth (recede), making your teeth look longer than normal	New spaces developing between your teeth	Pus between your teeth and gums	Bad breath	Bad taste in your mouth	Loose teeth	A change in the way your teeth fit together when you bite	
Peripheral neuropathy	Sensory nerves that receive sensation from the skin such as temperature, pain, vibration or touch	Motor nerves that control how your muscles move	Autonomic nerves that control functions such as blood pressure, heart rate, digestion and bladder	
Peritonitis	Abdominal pain or tenderness	Bloating or a feeling of fullness (distention) in your abdomen	Fever	Nausea and vomiting	Loss of appetite	Diarrhea	Low urine output	Thirst	Inability to pass stool or gas	Fatigue	
Pet allergy	Sneezing 	Runny nose 	Itchy, red or watery eyes 	Nasal congestion 	Itchy nose, roof of mouth or throat 	Postnasal drip 	Cough 	Facial pressure and pain 	Frequent awakening 	Swollen, blue-colored skin under your eyes 	In a child, frequent upward rubbing of the nose 	
Peyronie's disease	Scar tissue. The scar tissue (plaques) associated with Peyronie's disease can be felt under the skin of the penis as flat lumps or a band of hard tissue.	A significant bend to the penis. Your penis might be curved upward, downward or bent to one side. In some cases, the erect penis might have narrowing, indentations or an hourglass appearance, with a tight, narrow band around the shaft.	Erection problems. Peyronie's disease might cause problems getting or maintaining an erection (erectile dysfunction).	Shortening of the penis. Your penis might become shorter as a result of Peyronie's disease.	Pain. You might have penile pain, with or without an erection.	
Phantom pain	Onset within the first few days of amputation	Comes and goes or is continuous	Often affects the part of the limb farthest from the body, such as the foot of an amputated leg	May be described as shooting, stabbing, boring, squeezing, throbbing or burning	Sometimes feels as if the phantom part is forced into an uncomfortable position	
    May be triggered by pressure on the remaining part of the limb or emotional stress	
Phenylketonuria	Intellectual disability (formerly called mental retardation)	Delayed development	Behavioral, emotional and social problems	Psychiatric disorders	Neurological problems that may include seizures	Hyperactivity	Poor bone strength	Skin rashes (eczema)	A musty odor in the child's breath, skin or urine, caused by too much phenylalanine in the body	Fair skin and blue eyes, because phenylalanine cannot transform into melanin — the pigment responsible for hair and skin tone	Abnormally small head (microcephaly)	
Pheochromocytoma	High blood pressure	Rapid or forceful heartbeat	Profound sweating	Severe headache	Tremors	Paleness in the face	Shortness of breath	
Phobias	Specific phobias. A specific phobia involves an irrational, persistent fear of a specific object or situation that's out of proportion to the actual risk. This includes a fear of situations (such as airplanes or enclosed spaces); nature (such as thunderstorms or heights); animals or insects (such as dogs or spiders); blood, injection or injury (such as knives or medical procedures); or other phobias (such as loud noises or clowns). There are many other types of specific phobias. It's not unusual to experience phobias about more than one object or situation.	Social phobia. More than just shyness, social phobia involves a combination of excessive self-consciousness and a fear of public scrutiny or humiliation in common social situations. In social situations, the person fears being rejected or negatively evaluated or fears offending others.	Fear of open spaces (agoraphobia). This is a fear of an actual or anticipated situation, such as using public transportation, being in open or enclosed spaces, standing in line or being in a crowd, or being outside the home alone. The anxiety is caused by fearing no easy means of escape or help if intense anxiety develops. Most people who have agoraphobia develop it after having one or more panic attacks, causing them to fear another attack and avoid the place where it occurred. For some people, agoraphobia may be so severe that they're unable to leave home.	
Polymorphous light eruption	Dense clusters of small bumps	Raised rough patches	Redness	Itching or burning	Blistering and swelling (less common)	
Pilonidal cyst	Pain 	Reddening of the skin 	Drainage of pus or blood from an opening in the skin 	Foul smell from draining pus 	
Pinched nerve	Numbness or decreased sensation in the area supplied by the nerve	Sharp, aching or burning pain, which may radiate outward	Tingling, "pins and needles" sensations (paresthesia)	Muscle weakness in the affected area	Frequent feeling that a foot or hand has "fallen asleep"	
Pink eye (conjunctivitis)	Redness in one or both eyes	Itchiness in one or both eyes	A gritty feeling in one or both eyes	A discharge in one or both eyes that forms a crust during the night that may prevent your eye or eyes from opening in the morning	Tearing	
Pinworm infection	Itching of the anal or vaginal area 	Insomnia, irritability and restlessness 	Intermittent abdominal pain and nausea 	
Pituitary tumors	Headache	Vision loss, particularly loss of peripheral vision	Nausea and vomiting	Symptoms of pituitary hormone deficiency	Weakness	Less frequent or no menstrual periods	Body hair loss	Sexual dysfunction	Increased frequency and amount of urination	Unintended weight loss or gain	
Polycystic kidney disease	High blood pressure	Back or side pain	Headache	Increase in the size of your abdomen	Blood in your urine	Frequent urination	Kidney stones	Kidney failure	Urinary tract or kidney infections	
Placental abruption	Vaginal bleeding	Abdominal pain	Back pain	Uterine tenderness	Rapid uterine contractions, often coming one right after another	
Plague	Situated in the groin, armpit or neck 	About the size of a chicken egg 	Tender and warm to the touch 	
Plantar warts	A small, fleshy, rough, grainy growth (lesion) on the bottom of your foot	Hard, thickened skin (callus) over a well-defined "spot" on the skin, where a wart has grown inward	Black pinpoints, which are commonly called wart seeds but are actually small, clotted blood vessels	A lesion that interrupts the normal lines and ridges in the skin of your foot	Pain or tenderness when walking or standing	
Pleurisy	Chest pain that worsens when you breathe, cough or sneeze	Shortness of breath — because you are trying to minimize breathing in and out	A cough — only in some cases	A fever — only in some cases	
Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS)	Stiffness, weakness and spasticity in your legs	Tripping, difficulty with balance and clumsiness as the leg muscles weaken	Weakness and stiffness progressing to your trunk, then your arms, hands, tongue and jaw	Hoarseness, reduced rate of speaking, slurred speech and drooling as the facial muscles weaken	Difficulties with swallowing and breathing late in the disease	
Pneumonia	Fever, sweating and shaking chills	Lower than normal body temperature in people older than age 65, and in people with poor overall health or weakened immune systems	Cough, which may produce thick, sticky fluid	Chest pain when you breathe deeply or cough	Shortness of breath	Fatigue and muscle aches	Nausea, vomiting or diarrhea	Headache	
Pneumonitis	Shortness of breath	Cough	Fatigue	Loss of appetite	Unintentional weight loss	
POEMS Syndrome	Polyneuropathy. Numbness, tingling and weakness in your legs — and over time, maybe in your hands — and difficulty breathing.	Organomegaly. Enlarged spleen, liver or lymph nodes.	Endocrinopathy. Abnormal hormone levels that can result in underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism), diabetes, sexual problems, fatigue, swelling in your limbs, and problems with metabolism and other essential functions.	Monoclonal plasma-proliferative disorder. Abnormal bone marrow cells (plasma cells) that produce a protein (monoclonal protein) that can be found in the bloodstream.	Skin changes. More color than normal on your skin, possibly thicker skin and increased facial or leg hair.	
Poison ivy rash	Redness 	Itching 	Swelling 	Blisters 	
Polio	Fever	Sore throat	Headache	Vomiting	Fatigue	Back pain or stiffness	Neck pain or stiffness	Pain or stiffness in the arms or legs	Muscle weakness or tenderness	Meningitis	
Polycythemia vera	Itchiness, especially following a warm bath or shower	Headache	Dizziness	Weakness	Excessive sweating	Painful swelling of one joint, often the big toe	Shortness of breath	Breathing difficulty when you lie down	Numbness, tingling, burning or weakness in your hands, feet, arms or legs	A feeling of fullness or bloating in your left upper abdomen due to an enlarged spleen	
Polyhydramnios	Shortness of breath or the inability to breathe, except when upright	Swelling in the lower extremities, vulva and abdominal wall	Decreased urine production	
Polymyalgia rheumatica	Aches or pain in your shoulders (often the first symptom) 	Aches or pain in your neck, upper arms, buttocks, hips or thighs 	Stiffness in affected areas, particularly in the morning or after being inactive for a long time, such as a long car ride 	Limited range of motion in affected areas 	Pain or stiffness in wrists or knees (less common) 	
Poor color vision	Different shades of red and green	Different shades of blue and yellow	Any colors	
Porphyria	Severe abdominal pain	Swelling of the abdomen (abdominal distention)	Pain in your chest, legs or back	Constipation or diarrhea	Vomiting	Insomnia	Heartbeat you can feel (palpitations)	High blood pressure	Anxiety or restlessness	Seizures	Mental changes, such as confusion, hallucinations, disorientation or paranoia	Breathing problems	Muscle pain, tingling, numbness, weakness or paralysis	Red or brown urine	
Post-concussion syndrome	Headaches	Dizziness	Fatigue	Irritability	Anxiety	Insomnia	Loss of concentration and memory	Noise and light sensitivity	
Posterior cruciate ligament injury	Pain. Mild to moderate pain in the knee can cause a slight limp or difficulty walking.	Swelling. Knee swelling occurs rapidly, within hours of the injury.	Instability. Your knee may feel loose, as if it's going to give way.	
Posterior prolapse (rectocele)	A soft bulge of tissue in your vagina that may or may not protrude through the vaginal opening	Difficulty having a bowel movement with the need to press your fingers on the bulge in your vagina to help push stool out during a bowel movement ("splinting")	Sensation of rectal pressure or fullness	A feeling that the rectum has not completely emptied after a bowel movement	Sexual concerns, such as feeling embarrassed or sensing looseness in the tone of your vaginal tissue	
Postherpetic neuralgia	Pain. The pain associated with postherpetic neuralgia most commonly has been described as burning, sharp and jabbing, or deep and aching.	Sensitivity to light touch. People who have postherpetic neuralgia often cannot bear even the touch of clothing on the affected skin, a condition called allodynia.	Itching and numbness. Less commonly, postherpetic neuralgia can produce an itchy feeling or numbness.	Weakness or paralysis. In rare cases, you might also experience muscle weakness or paralysis if the nerves involved also control muscle movement.	
Postpartum depression	Mood swings 	Anxiety 	Sadness 	Irritability 	Crying 	Decreased concentration 	Trouble sleeping 	
Postpartum preeclampsia	High blood pressure (hypertension) — 140/90 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) or greater	Excess protein in your urine (proteinuria)	Severe headaches	Changes in vision, including temporary loss of vision, blurred vision or light sensitivity	Upper abdominal pain, usually under the ribs on the right side	Nausea or vomiting	Decreased urination	Sudden weight gain, typically more than 2 pounds (0.9 kilogram) a week	
Postpartum thyroiditis	Anxiety	Irritability	Rapid heartbeat or palpitations	Unexplained weight loss	Increased sensitivity to heat	Fatigue	Tremor	Insomnia	
Post-polio syndrome	Progressive muscle and joint weakness and pain	General fatigue and exhaustion with minimal activity	Muscle atrophy	Breathing or swallowing problems	Sleep-related breathing disorders, such as sleep apnea	Decreased tolerance of cold temperatures	
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)	Recurrent, unwanted distressing memories of the traumatic event	Reliving the traumatic event as if it were happening again (flashbacks)	Upsetting dreams about the traumatic event	Severe emotional distress or physical reactions to something that reminds you of the event	
Prader-Willi syndrome	Poor muscle tone. A primary sign during infancy is poor muscle tone (hypotonia). Babies may rest with their elbows and knees loosely extended instead of fixed, and they may feel floppy or like rag dolls when they're held.	Distinct facial features. Children may be born with almond-shaped eyes, a narrowing of the head at the temples, a turned-down mouth and a thin upper lip.	Failure to thrive. Infants may have a poor sucking reflex due to decreased muscle tone. Because poor sucking makes feeding difficult, they tend to gain weight slowly.	Lack of eye coordination (strabismus). The child's eyes may not move together — they may cross or wander to the side.	Generally poor responsiveness. A baby may seem unusually tired, respond poorly to stimulation, have a hard time waking up or have a weak cry.	
Precocious puberty	Breast growth	First period (menarche)	
Prediabetes	Increased thirst	Frequent urination	Fatigue	Blurred vision	
Preeclampsia	Excess protein in your urine (proteinuria) or additional signs of kidney problems	Severe headaches	Changes in vision, including temporary loss of vision, blurred vision or light sensitivity	Upper abdominal pain, usually under your ribs on the right side	Nausea or vomiting	Decreased urine output	Decreased levels of platelets in your blood (thrombocytopenia)	Impaired liver function	Shortness of breath, caused by fluid in your lungs	
Premature birth	Small size, with a disproportionately large head	Sharper looking, less rounded features than a full-term baby's features, due to a lack of fat stores	Fine hair (lanugo) covering much of the body	Low body temperature, especially immediately after birth in the delivery room, due to a lack of stored body fat	Labored breathing or respiratory distress	Lack of reflexes for sucking and swallowing, leading to feeding difficulties	
Premature ovarian failure	Irregular or skipped periods (amenorrhea), which may be present for years or may develop after a pregnancy or after stopping birth control pills	Hot flashes	Night sweats	Vaginal dryness	Irritability or difficulty concentrating	Decreased sexual desire	
Premature ventricular contractions	Flip-flops	Fluttering	Pounding or jumping	Skipped beats or missed beats	Increased awareness of your heartbeat	
Premenstrual syndrome (PMS)	Tension or anxiety	Depressed mood	Crying spells	Mood swings and irritability or anger	Appetite changes and food cravings	Trouble falling asleep (insomnia)	Social withdrawal	Poor concentration	
Presbyopia	A tendency to hold reading material farther away to make the letters clearer	Blurred vision at normal reading distance	Eyestrain or headaches after reading or doing close work	
Prescription drug abuse	Opioids, such as oxycodone (Oxycontin) and those containing hydrocodone (Vicodin), used to treat pain	Anti-anxiety medications and sedatives, such as alprazolam (Xanax) and diazepam (Valium), and hypnotics, such as zolpidem (Ambien), used to treat anxiety and sleep disorders	Stimulants, such as methylphenidate (Ritalin), used to treat ADHD and certain sleep disorders	
Preterm labor	Regular or frequent contractions — a tightening sensation in the abdomen	Constant low, dull backache	A sensation of pelvic or lower abdominal pressure	Mild abdominal cramps 	Diarrhea	Vaginal spotting or bleeding	Watery vaginal discharge (water breaking) — in a gush or a trickle	A change in vaginal discharge	
Priapism	Unwanted erection lasting more than four hours 	Unwanted erection off and on for several hours (stuttering priapism) 	Rigid penile shaft, but usually soft tip of penis (glans) 	Usually painful or tender penis 	
Primary aldosteronism	Moderate to severe high blood pressure	High blood pressure that takes several medications to control (resistant hypertension)	High blood pressure along with a low potassium level (hypokalemia)	
Primary biliary cirrhosis	Fatigue	Itchy skin	Dry eyes and mouth	
Primary immunodeficiency	Frequent and recurrent pneumonia, bronchitis, sinus infections, ear infections, meningitis or skin infections	Inflammation and infection of internal organs	Blood disorders, such as low platelet counts or anemia	Digestive problems, such as cramping, loss of appetite, nausea and diarrhea	Delayed growth and development	Autoimmune disorders, such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis or type 1 diabetes	
Primary progressive aphasia	Difficulty comprehending spoken or written language, particularly single words	Difficulty comprehending word meanings	Difficulty naming objects	
Primary sclerosing cholangitis	Fatigue	Itching	
Proctitis	Frequent or continuous sensation that you need to have a bowel movement (tenesmus)	Rectal bleeding	The passing of mucus through your rectum	Rectal pain	Pain on the left side of your abdomen	A feeling of fullness in your rectum	Diarrhea	Pain with bowel movements	
Progeria	Slowed growth, with below-average height and weight	Narrowed face, small lower jaw, thin lips and beaked nose	Head disproportionately large for face	Prominent eyes and incomplete closure of the eyelids	Hair loss, including eyelashes and eyebrows	Thinning, spotty, wrinkled skin	Visible veins	High-pitched voice	
Prostate cancer	Trouble urinating	Decreased force in the stream of urine	Blood in the semen	Discomfort in the pelvic area	Bone pain	Erectile dysfunction	
Prostatitis	Pain or burning sensation when urinating (dysuria)	Difficulty urinating, such as dribbling or hesitant urination	Frequent urination, particularly at night (nocturia)	Urgent need to urinate	Pain in the abdomen, groin or lower back	Pain in the area between the scrotum and rectum (perineum)	Pain or discomfort of the penis or testicles	Painful orgasms (ejaculations)	Flu-like symptoms (with bacterial prostatitis)	
Pseudogout	Swollen	Warm	Severely painful	
Pseudomembranous colitis	Diarrhea that can be watery and sometimes bloody 	Abdominal cramps and pain 	Fever 	Pus or mucus in your stool 	Nausea 	Dehydration 	
Pseudotumor cerebri	Moderate to severe headaches that may originate behind your eyes and worsen with eye movement	Ringing in the ears that pulses in time with your heartbeat (pulsatile tinnitus)	Nausea, vomiting or dizziness	Blurred or dimmed vision	Brief episodes of blindness, lasting only a few seconds and affecting one or both eyes (visual obscurations)	Difficulty seeing to the side	Double vision (diplopia)	Seeing light flashes (photopsia)	Neck, shoulder or back pain	
Psoriasis	Red patches of skin covered with silvery scales	Small scaling spots (commonly seen in children)	Dry, cracked skin that may bleed	Itching, burning or soreness	Thickened, pitted or ridged nails	Swollen and stiff joints	
Psoriatic arthritis	Swollen fingers and toes. Psoriatic arthritis can cause a painful, sausage-like swelling of your fingers and toes. You may also develop swelling and deformities in your hands and feet before having significant joint symptoms.	Foot pain. Psoriatic arthritis can also cause pain at the points where tendons and ligaments attach to your bones — especially at the back of your heel (Achilles tendinitis) or in the sole of your foot (plantar fasciitis).	Lower back pain. Some people develop a condition called spondylitis as a result of psoriatic arthritis. Spondylitis mainly causes inflammation of the joints between the vertebrae of your spine and in the joints between your spine and pelvis (sacroiliitis).	
Pubic lice (crabs)	Legs	Chest	Armpits	Beard or mustache	Eyelashes or eyebrows, more commonly in children	
Pulmonary atresia	Blue- or gray-toned skin (cyanosis)	Fast breathing or shortness of breath	Easily tiring or being fatigued	Feeding problems, such as tiring or sweating while eating	Pale, clammy skin that may feel cool to the touch	
Pulmonary edema	Extreme shortness of breath or difficulty breathing (dyspnea) that worsens when lying down 	A feeling of suffocating or drowning 	Wheezing or gasping for breath 	Anxiety, restlessness or a sense of apprehension 	A cough that produces frothy sputum that may be tinged with blood 	Chest pain if pulmonary edema is caused by heart disease 	A rapid, irregular heartbeat (palpitations) 	
Pulmonary embolism	Shortness of breath. This symptom typically appears suddenly and always gets worse with exertion.	Chest pain. You may feel like you're having a heart attack. The pain may become worse when you breathe deeply (pleurisy), cough, eat, bend or stoop. The pain will get worse with exertion but won't go away when you rest.	Cough. The cough may produce bloody or blood-streaked sputum.	
Pulmonary fibrosis	Shortness of breath (dyspnea)	A dry cough	Fatigue	Unexplained weight loss	Aching muscles and joints	
Pulmonary hypertension	Shortness of breath (dyspnea), initially while exercising and eventually while at rest	Fatigue	Dizziness or fainting spells (syncope)	Chest pressure or pain	Swelling (edema) in your ankles, legs and eventually in your abdomen (ascites)	Bluish color to your lips and skin (cyanosis)	Racing pulse or heart palpitations	
Pulmonary valve stenosis	Heart murmur — an abnormal whooshing sound heard using a stethoscope, caused by turbulent blood flow	Shortness of breath, especially during exertion	Chest pain	Loss of consciousness (fainting)	Fatigue	
Pyloric stenosis	Projectile vomiting. Pyloric stenosis often causes projectile vomiting — the forceful ejection of milk or formula up to several feet away. Vomiting occurs within 30 minutes after your baby eats. Vomiting may be mild at first and gradually become more severe as the pylorus opening narrows. The vomit may sometimes contain blood. 	Persistent hunger. Babies who have pyloric stenosis often want to eat soon after vomiting. 	Stomach contractions. You may notice wave-like contractions (peristalsis) that ripple across your baby's upper abdomen soon after feeding but before vomiting. This is caused by stomach muscles trying to force food through the narrowed pylorus. 	Dehydration. Your baby may cry without tears or become lethargic. You may find yourself changing fewer wet diapers or diapers that aren't as wet as you expect. 	Changes in bowel movements. Since pyloric stenosis prevents food from reaching the intestines, babies with this condition may be constipated. 	Weight problems. Pyloric stenosis can keep a baby from gaining weight, and sometimes can cause weight loss. 	
Q fever	High fever, up to 105 F (41 C)	Severe headache	Fatigue	Cough	Nausea	Diarrhea	Sensitivity to light	
Rabies	Fever	Headache	Nausea	Vomiting	Agitation	Anxiety	Confusion	Hyperactivity	Difficulty swallowing	Excessive salivation	Fear of water (hydrophobia) because of the difficulty in swallowing	Hallucinations	Insomnia	Partial paralysis	
Ramsay Hunt syndrome	A painful red rash with fluid-filled blisters on, in and around one ear	Facial weakness or paralysis on the same side as the affected ear	
Raynaud's disease	Cold fingers or toes	Color changes in your skin in response to cold or stress	Numb, prickly feeling or stinging pain upon warming or stress relief	
Reactive arthritis	Pain and stiffness. The joint pain associated with reactive arthritis most commonly occurs in your knees, ankles and feet. You also might experience pain in your heels, low back or buttocks.	Eye inflammation. Many people who have reactive arthritis also develop eye inflammation (conjunctivitis).	Urinary problems. Increased frequency and discomfort during urination may occur, as can inflammation of the prostate gland or cervix.	Swollen toes or fingers. In some cases, your toes or fingers might become so swollen that they resemble sausages.	
Reactive attachment disorder	Withdrawal, fear, sadness or irritability that is not readily explained	Sad and listless appearance	Not seeking comfort or showing no response when comfort is given	Failure to smile	Watching others closely but not engaging in social interaction	Failing to ask for support or assistance	Failure to reach out when picked up	No interest in playing peekaboo or other interactive games	
Rebound headaches	Occur every day or nearly every day, often waking you in the early morning	Improve with pain relief medication but then return as your medication wears off	
Rectovaginal fistula	Passage of gas, stool or pus from your vagina 	A foul-smelling vaginal discharge 	Recurrent vaginal or urinary tract infections 	Irritation or pain in the vulva, vagina and the area between your vagina and anus (perineum) 	Pain during sexual intercourse 	
Recurrent breast cancer	A new lump in your breast or irregular area of firmness	Changes to the skin of your breast	Skin inflammation or area of redness	Nipple discharge	
REM sleep behavior disorder	Movement, such as kicking, punching, arm flailing or jumping from bed in response to the content of action-filled or violent dreams, such as being chased or defending yourself from an attack	Noises, such as talking, laughing, shouting, emotional outcries or even profanity	Being able to recall the dream if you are woken up during the episode	
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)	Congested or runny nose	Dry cough	Low-grade fever	Sore throat	Mild headache	
Restless legs syndrome	Sensation starts after being at rest. The sensation typically begins after you've been lying down or sitting for an extended time, such as in a car, airplane or movie theater.	Relief by movement. The sensation of RLS/WED lessens with movement, such as stretching, jiggling your legs, pacing or walking.	Worsening of symptoms in the evening. Symptoms occur mainly at night.	Nighttime leg twitching. RLS/WED may be associated with another, more common condition called periodic limb movement of sleep, which causes your legs to twitch and kick, possibly throughout the night, while you sleep.	
Retinal detachment	The sudden appearance of many floaters — small bits of debris in your field of vision that look like spots, hairs or strings and seem to float before your eyes	Sudden flashes of light in the affected eye	A shadow or curtain over a portion of your visual field that develops as the detachment progresses	
Retinoblastoma	A white color in the center circle of the eye (pupil) when light is shone in the eye, such as when taking a flash photograph 	Eyes that appear to be looking in different directions 	Eye redness 	Eye swelling 	
Retractile testicle	The testicle may be moved by hand from the groin into the scrotum and won't immediately retreat to the groin. 	It may spontaneously appear in the scrotum and remain there for a time. 	It may spontaneously disappear again for a time. 	
Retrograde ejaculation	Dry orgasms, orgasms in which you ejaculate very little or no semen out of your penis	Urine that is cloudy after orgasm (because it contains semen)	Inability to get a woman pregnant (male infertility)	
Rett syndrome	Slowed growth. Brain growth slows after birth. Smaller than normal head size is usually the first sign that a child has Rett syndrome. It generally starts to become apparent after 6 months of age. As children get older, delayed growth in other parts of the body becomes evident.	Loss of normal movement and coordination. The most significant loss of movement skills (motor skills) usually starts between 12 and 18 months of age. The first signs often include a decrease of hand control and a decreasing ability to crawl or walk normally. At first, this loss of abilities occurs rapidly and then continues more gradually.	Loss of communication and thinking abilities. Children with Rett syndrome typically begin to lose the ability to speak and to communicate in other ways. They may become uninterested in other people, toys and their surroundings. Some children have rapid changes, such as a sudden loss of speech. Over time, most children gradually regain eye contact and develop nonverbal communication skills.	Abnormal hand movements. As the disease progresses, children with Rett syndrome typically develop their own particular hand patterns, which may include hand wringing, squeezing, clapping, tapping or rubbing.	Unusual eye movements. Children with Rett syndrome tend to have unusual eye movements, such as intense staring, blinking or closing one eye at a time.	Breathing problems. These include breath-holding (apnea), abnormally rapid breathing (hyperventilation), and forceful exhalation of air or saliva. These problems tend to occur during waking hours, but not during sleep.	Irritability. Children with Rett syndrome become increasingly agitated and irritable as they get older. Periods of crying or screaming may begin suddenly and last for hours.	Abnormal behaviors. These may include sudden, odd facial expressions and long bouts of laughter, screaming that occurs for no apparent reason, hand licking, and grasping of hair or clothing.	Seizures. Most people who have Rett syndrome experience seizures at some time during their lives. Symptoms vary from person to person, and they can range from periodic muscle spasms to full-blown epilepsy.	Abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis). Scoliosis is common with Rett syndrome. It typically begins between 8 and 11 years of age.	Irregular heartbeat (dysrhythmia). This is a life-threatening problem for many children and adults with Rett syndrome.	Constipation. This is a common problem in people with Rett syndrome.	
Reye's syndrome	Diarrhea	Rapid breathing	
Rhabdomyosarcoma	Head and neck	Bladder	Vagina	Prostate	Testes	Arms	Legs	
Rheumatic fever	Fever	Painful and tender joints — most often the ankles, knees, elbows or wrists; less often the shoulders, hips, hands and feet	Pain in one joint that migrates to another joint	Red, hot or swollen joints	Small, painless nodules beneath the skin	Chest pain	Heart murmur	Fatigue	Flat or slightly raised, painless rash with a ragged edge (erythema marginatum)	Jerky, uncontrollable body movements (Sydenham chorea or St. Vitus' dance) — most often in the hands, feet and face	Outbursts of unusual behavior, such as crying or inappropriate laughing, that accompanies Sydenham chorea 	
Rheumatoid arthritis	Tender, warm, swollen joints	Morning stiffness that may last for hours	Firm bumps of tissue under the skin on your arms (rheumatoid nodules)	Fatigue, fever and weight loss	
Rickets	Delayed growth 	Pain in the spine, pelvis and legs 	Muscle weakness 	
Ringworm (scalp)	One or more round patches of scaly skin where the hair has broken off at or just above the scalp	Patches that slowly expand or enlarge	Scaly, gray or reddened areas	Patches that have small black dots where the hair has broken off at the scalp	Brittle or fragile hair that easily pulls out	Tender or painful areas on the scalp	
Rocky Mountain spotted fever	High fever	Chills	Severe headache	Muscle aches	Nausea and vomiting	Restlessness and insomnia	
Rosacea	Facial redness. Rosacea usually causes a persistent redness in the central portion of your face. Small blood vessels on your nose and cheeks often swell and become visible. 	Swollen red bumps. Many people who have rosacea also develop bumps on their face that resemble acne. These bumps sometimes contain pus. Your skin may feel hot and tender. 	Eye problems. About half of the people who have rosacea also experience eye dryness, irritation and swollen, reddened eyelids. In some people, rosacea's eye symptoms precede the skin symptoms. 	Enlarged nose. Rarely, rosacea can thicken the skin on the nose, causing the nose to appear bulbous (rhinophyma). This occurs more often in men than in women. 	
Roseola	Fever. Roseola typically starts with a sudden, high fever — often greater than 103 F (39.4 C). Some children may also have a slightly sore throat, runny nose or cough along with or preceding the fever. Your child may also develop swollen lymph nodes in his or her neck along with the fever. The fever lasts three to five days. 	Rash. Once the fever subsides, a rash typically appears — but not always. The rash consists of many small pink spots or patches. These spots are generally flat, but some may be raised. There may be a white ring around some of the spots. The rash usually starts on the chest, back and abdomen and then spreads to the neck and arms. It may or may not reach the legs and face. The rash, which isn't itchy or uncomfortable, can last from several hours to several days before fading. 	
Rotator cuff injury	Be described as a dull ache deep in the shoulder	Disturb sleep, particularly if you lie on the affected shoulder	Make it difficult to comb your hair or reach behind your back	Be accompanied by arm weakness	
Rotavirus	Has severe or bloody diarrhea 	Has frequent episodes of vomiting for more than three hours 	Has a temperature of 103 F (39.4 C) or higher 	Seems lethargic, irritable or in pain 	Has signs or symptoms of dehydration — dry mouth, crying without tears, little or no urination, unusual sleepiness or unresponsiveness 	
Rubella	Mild fever of 102 F (38.9 C) or lower	Headache	Stuffy or runny nose	Inflamed, red eyes	Enlarged, tender lymph nodes at the base of the skull, the back of the neck and behind the ears	A fine, pink rash that begins on the face and quickly spreads to the trunk and then the arms and legs, before disappearing in the same sequence	Aching joints, especially in young women	
Ruptured eardrum	Ear pain that may subside quickly	Clear, pus-filled or bloody drainage from your ear	Hearing loss	Ringing in your ear (tinnitus)	Spinning sensation (vertigo)	Nausea or vomiting that can result from vertigo	
Ruptured spleen	Pain in the upper left portion of the abdomen 	Tenderness when you touch the upper left portion of the abdomen 	Lightheadedness 	Confusion 	
Sacroiliitis	Prolonged standing	Bearing more weight on one leg than the other	Stair climbing	Running	Taking large strides	
Seasonal affective disorder (SAD)	Feeling depressed most of the day, nearly every day	Feeling hopeless or worthless	Having low energy	Losing interest in activities you once enjoyed	Having problems with sleeping	Experiencing changes in your appetite or weight	Feeling sluggish or agitated	Having difficulty concentrating	Having frequent thoughts of death or suicide	
Salivary gland cancer	A lump or swelling on or near your jaw or in your neck or mouth 	Numbness in part of your face 	Muscle weakness on one side of your face 	Persistent pain in the area of a salivary gland 	Difficulty swallowing 	Trouble opening your mouth widely 	
Salmonella infection	Nausea	Vomiting	Abdominal cramps	Diarrhea	Fever	Chills	Headache	Blood in the stool	
Sarcoidosis	Fatigue	Fever	Swollen lymph nodes	Weight loss	
Sarcoma	Chondrosarcoma	Ewing's sarcoma	Osteosarcoma	
Soft tissue sarcoma	A noticeable lump or swelling	Pain, if a tumor presses on nerves or muscles	
Scabies	Itching, often severe and usually worse at night 	Thin, irregular burrow tracks made up of tiny blisters or bumps on your skin 	
Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD)	Chest pain	A rapid heartbeat or fluttery feeling in the chest	Pain in your arms, shoulders or jaw	Shortness of breath	Sweating	Unusual, extreme tiredness	Nausea	Dizziness	
Scarlet fever	Red rash. The rash looks like a sunburn and feels like sandpaper. It typically begins on the face or neck and spreads to the trunk, arms and legs. If pressure is applied to the reddened skin, it will turn pale.	Red lines. The folds of skin around the groin, armpits, elbows, knees and neck usually become a deeper red than the surrounding rash.	Flushed face. The face may appear flushed with a pale ring around the mouth.	Strawberry tongue. The tongue generally looks red and bumpy, and it's often covered with a white coating early in the disease.	
Schizoaffective disorder	Delusions — having false, fixed beliefs	Hallucinations, such as hearing voices	Major depressed mood episodes	Possible periods of manic mood or a sudden increase in energy and behavioral displays that are out of character	Impaired occupational and social functioning	Problems with cleanliness and physical appearance	Paranoid thoughts and ideas	
Schizoid personality disorder	Prefer being alone and usually choose solitary activities 	Prize independence and have few close friendships 	Feel confused about how to respond to normal social cues and generally have little to say 	Feel little if any desire for sexual relationships 	Feel unable to experience pleasure 	Come off as dull, indifferent or emotionally cold 	Feel unmotivated and tend to underperform at school or work 	
Schizophrenia	Delusions. These are false beliefs that are not based in reality. For example, you're being harmed or harassed; certain gestures or comments are directed at you; you have exceptional ability or fame; another person is in love with you; a major catastrophe is about to occur; or your body is not functioning properly. Delusions occur in as many as 4 out of 5 people with schizophrenia. 	Hallucinations. These usually involve seeing or hearing things that don't exist. Yet for the person with schizophrenia, they have the full force and impact of a normal experience. Hallucinations can be in any of the senses, but hearing voices is the most common hallucination. 	Disorganized thinking (speech). Disorganized thinking is inferred from disorganized speech. Effective communication can be impaired, and answers to questions may be partially or completely unrelated. Rarely, speech may include putting together meaningless words that can't be understood, sometimes known as word salad. 	Extremely disorganized or abnormal motor behavior. This may show in a number of ways, ranging from childlike silliness to unpredictable agitation. Behavior is not focused on a goal, which makes it hard to perform tasks. Abnormal motor behavior can include resistance to instructions, inappropriate and bizarre posture, a complete lack of response, or useless and excessive movement. 	Negative symptoms. This refers to reduced ability or lack of ability to function normally. For example, the person appears to lack emotion, such as not making eye contact, not changing facial expressions, speaking without inflection or monotone, or not adding hand or head movements that normally provide the emotional emphasis in speech. Also, the person may have a reduced ability to plan or carry out activities, such as decreased talking and neglect of personal hygiene, or have a loss of interest in everyday activities, social withdrawal or a lack of ability to experience pleasure. 	
Schizotypal personality disorder	Being a loner and lacking close friends outside of the immediate family 	Incorrect interpretation of events, including feeling that external events have personal meaning 	Peculiar, eccentric or unusual thinking, beliefs or behavior 	Dressing in peculiar ways 	Belief in special powers, such as telepathy 	Perceptual alterations, in some cases bodily illusions, including phantom pains or other distortions in the sense of touch 	Persistent and excessive social anxiety 	Peculiar style of speech, such as loose or vague patterns of speaking or rambling oddly and endlessly during conversations 	Suspicious or paranoid ideas, hypersensitivity, and constant doubts about the loyalty and fidelity of others 	Flat emotions, or limited or inappropriate emotional responses 	
Sciatica	You experience sudden, severe pain in your low back or leg and numbness or muscle weakness in your leg 	The pain follows a violent injury, such as a traffic accident 	You have trouble controlling your bowels or bladder 	
Scleroderma	Skin. Nearly everyone who has scleroderma experiences a hardening and tightening of patches of skin. These patches may be shaped like ovals or straight lines. The number, location and size of the patches vary by type of scleroderma. Skin can appear shiny because it's so tight, and movement of the affected area may be restricted. 	Fingers or toes. One of the earliest signs of scleroderma is an exaggerated response to cold temperatures or emotional distress, which can cause numbness, pain or color changes in the fingers or toes. Called Raynaud's phenomenon, this condition also occurs in people who don't have scleroderma. 	Digestive system. In addition to acid reflux, which can damage the section of esophagus nearest the stomach, some people with scleroderma may also have problems absorbing nutrients if their intestinal muscles aren't moving food properly through the intestines. 	Heart, lungs or kidneys. Rarely, scleroderma can affect the function of the heart, lungs or kidneys. These problems can become life-threatening. 	
Scoliosis	Uneven shoulders 	One shoulder blade that appears more prominent than the other 	Uneven waist 	One hip higher than the other 	
Scorpion stings	Pain, which can be intense	Numbness and tingling in the area around the sting	Slight swelling in the area around the sting	
Scrotal masses	An unusual lump	Sudden pain	A dull aching pain or feeling of heaviness in the scrotum	Pain that radiates throughout the groin, abdomen or lower back	Tender, swollen or hardened testicle	Tender, swollen or hardened epididymis (ep-ih-DID-uh-mis), the soft, comma-shaped tube above and behind the testicle that stores and transports sperm	Swelling in the scrotum	Redness of the skin of the scrotum	Nausea or vomiting	
Seborrheic dermatitis	Skin flakes (dandruff) on your scalp, hair, eyebrows, beard or mustache	Patches of greasy skin covered with flaky white or yellow scales or crust on the scalp, ears, face, chest, armpits, scrotum or other parts of the body	Red skin	Redness or crusting of the eyelids (blepharitis)	Possibly itching or stinging	
Seborrheic keratosis	Ranges in color, usually from light tan to brown or black	Is round or oval shaped	Has a characteristic "pasted on" look	Is flat or slightly elevated with a scaly surface	Ranges in size from very small to more than 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) across	May itch	
Secondary hypertension	High blood pressure that doesn't respond to blood pressure medications (resistant hypertension)	Very high blood pressure — systolic blood pressure over 160 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) or diastolic blood pressure over 100 mm Hg	A blood pressure medication or medications that previously controlled your blood pressure no longer work	Sudden-onset high blood pressure before age 30 or after age 55	No family history of high blood pressure	No obesity	
Self-injury/cutting	Scars, such as from burns or cuts 	Fresh cuts, scratches, bruises or other wounds 	Broken bones 	Keeping sharp objects on hand 	Wearing long sleeves or long pants, even in hot weather 	Claiming to have frequent accidents or mishaps 	Spending a great deal of time alone 	Pervasive difficulties in interpersonal relationships 	Persistent questions about personal identity, such as "Who am I?" "What am I doing here?" 	Behavioral and emotional instability, impulsivity and unpredictability 	Statements of helplessness, hopelessness or worthlessness 	
Separated shoulder	Shoulder pain	Shoulder or arm weakness	Shoulder bruising or swelling	Limited shoulder movement	A bump at the top of your shoulder	
Sepsis	Body temperature above 101 F (38.3 C) or below 96.8 F (36 C)	Heart rate higher than 90 beats a minute	Respiratory rate higher than 20 breaths a minute	Probable or confirmed infection	
Serotonin syndrome	Agitation or restlessness	Confusion	Rapid heart rate and high blood pressure	Dilated pupils	Loss of muscle coordination or twitching muscles	Muscle rigidity	Heavy sweating	Diarrhea	Headache	Shivering	Goose bumps	
Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)	Fever of 100.5 F (38 C) or higher	Dry cough	Shortness of breath	
Sex headaches	Gives no warning and occurs within a few seconds of an orgasm	Is often described as throbbing or stabbing	
Sexually transmitted diseases	Sores or bumps on the genitals or in the oral or rectal area	Painful or burning urination	Discharge from the penis	Unusual or odd-smelling vaginal discharge	Unusual vaginal bleeding	Pain during sex	Sore, swollen lymph nodes, particularly in the groin but sometimes more widespread	Lower abdominal pain	Rash over the trunk, hands or feet	
Shaken baby syndrome	Extreme irritability	Difficulty staying awake	Breathing problems	Poor eating	Tremors	Vomiting	Pale or bluish skin	Seizures	Paralysis	Coma	
Sheehan's syndrome	Difficulty breast-feeding or an inability to breast-feed	No menstrual periods (amenorrhea) or infrequent menstruation (oligomenorrhea)	Loss of pubic or underarm hair	Slowed mental function, weight gain and difficulty staying warm as a result of an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism)	Low blood pressure	Fatigue	Irregular heartbeat	Loss of interest in sex	
Shellfish allergy	Hives, itching or eczema (atopic dermatitis)	Swelling of the lips, face, tongue and throat, or other parts of the body	Wheezing, nasal congestion or trouble breathing	Abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting	Dizziness, lightheadedness or fainting	Tingling in the mouth	
Shigella infection	Diarrhea (often containing blood or mucus)	Abdominal cramps	Fever	
Shin splints	Tenderness, soreness or pain along the inner part of your lower leg	Mild swelling in your lower leg	
Shingles	Pain, burning, numbness or tingling	Sensitivity to touch	A red rash that begins a few days after the pain	Fluid-filled blisters that break open and crust over	Itching	
Short bowel syndrome	Portions of the small intestine have been surgically removed. Conditions that may require surgical removal of large portions of the small intestine include Crohn's disease, cancer, traumatic injuries and blood clots in the arteries that provide blood to the intestines.	Portions of the small intestine are missing or damaged at birth. Babies may be born with a short small intestine or with a damaged small intestine that must be surgically removed.	
Sick sinus syndrome	Slower than normal pulse (bradycardia)	Fatigue	Dizziness or lightheadedness	Fainting or near fainting	Shortness of breath	Chest pains	A sensation of rapid, fluttering heartbeats (palpitations)	
Sickle cell anemia	Anemia. Sickle cells are fragile. They break apart easily and die, leaving you without a good supply of red blood cells. Red blood cells usually live for about 120 days before they die and need to be replaced. But sickle cells die after an average of less than 20 days. This results in a lasting shortage of red blood cells (anemia). Without enough red blood cells in circulation, your body can't get the oxygen it needs to feel energized. That's why anemia causes fatigue.	Episodes of pain. Periodic episodes of pain, called crises, are a major symptom of sickle cell anemia. Pain develops when sickle-shaped red blood cells block blood flow through tiny blood vessels to your chest, abdomen and joints. Pain can also occur in your bones. The pain may vary in intensity and can last for a few hours to a few weeks. Some people experience only a few episodes of pain. Others experience a dozen or more crises a year. If a crisis is severe enough, you may need to be hospitalized.	Hand-foot syndrome. Swollen hands and feet may be the first signs of sickle cell anemia in babies. The swelling is caused by sickle-shaped red blood cells blocking blood flow out of their hands and feet.	Frequent infections. Sickle cells can damage your spleen, an organ that fights infection. This may make you more vulnerable to infections. Doctors commonly give infants and children with sickle cell anemia vaccinations and antibiotics to prevent potentially life-threatening infections, such as pneumonia.	Delayed growth. Red blood cells provide your body with the oxygen and nutrients you need for growth. A shortage of healthy red blood cells can slow growth in infants and children and delay puberty in teenagers.	Vision problems. Some people with sickle cell anemia experience vision problems. Tiny blood vessels that supply your eyes may become plugged with sickle cells. This can damage the retina — the portion of the eye that processes visual images.	
Sinus headaches	Pain, pressure and fullness in your cheeks, brow or forehead	Pain worsening when bending forward or lying down	Yellow-green or blood-tinged nasal discharge	Stuffy nose	Sore throat	Fever 	Cough 	Fatigue 	Achy feeling in your upper teeth	Decreased ability to smell or taste	
Sjogren's syndrome	Dry eyes. Your eyes may burn, itch or feel gritty — as if there's sand in them.	Dry mouth. Your mouth may feel like it's full of cotton, making it difficult to swallow or speak.	
Skin cancer	A pearly or waxy bump 	A flat, flesh-colored or brown scar-like lesion 	
Sleep apnea	Excessive daytime sleepiness (hypersomnia)	Loud snoring, which is usually more prominent in obstructive sleep apnea	Episodes of breathing cessation during sleep witnessed by another person	Abrupt awakenings accompanied by shortness of breath, which more likely indicates central sleep apnea	Awakening with a dry mouth or sore throat	Morning headache	Difficulty staying asleep (insomnia)	Attention problems	
Sleep apnea, central	Observed episodes of stopped breathing or abnormal breathing patterns during sleep	Abrupt awakenings accompanied by shortness of breath	Shortness of breath that's relieved by sitting up	Difficulty staying asleep (insomnia)	Excessive daytime sleepiness (hypersomnia)	Difficulty concentrating	Mood changes	Morning headaches	Snoring	
Sleep apnea, obstructive	Excessive daytime sleepiness	Loud snoring	Observed episodes of breathing cessation during sleep	Abrupt awakenings accompanied by shortness of breath	Awakening with a dry mouth or sore throat	Awakening with chest pain	Morning headache	Difficulty concentrating during the day	Experiencing mood changes, such as depression or irritability	Difficulty staying asleep (insomnia)	Having high blood pressure	
Sleep terrors (night terrors)	Sit up in bed	Scream or shout	Kick and thrash	Sweat, breathe heavily and have a racing pulse	Be hard to awaken, but if awakened be confused	Be inconsolable	Stare wide-eyed	Get out of bed and run around the house	Engage in aggressive behavior (more common in adults)	
Sleepwalking	Get out of bed and walk around	Sit up in bed and open his or her eyes	Have a glazed, glassy-eyed expression	Do routine activities, such as getting dressed, talking or making a snack	Not respond or communicate with others	Be difficult to wake up during an episode	Be disoriented or confused for a short time after being awakened	Quickly return to sleep	Not remember the episode in the morning	Sometimes have problems functioning during the day because of disturbed sleep	Have sleep terrors in addition to sleepwalking	
Small bowel cancer	Adenocarcinoma	Sarcoma, including gastrointestinal stromal tumor	Carcinoid tumors	Lymphoma	
Small bowel prolapse (enterocele)	A pulling sensation in your pelvis that eases when you lie down	A feeling of pelvic fullness, pressure or pain	Low back pain that eases when you lie down	A soft bulge of tissue in your vagina	Vaginal discomfort and painful intercourse (dyspareunia)	
Small vessel disease	Chest pain, squeezing or discomfort	Chest pain associated with discomfort in your left arm or jaw	Chest pain that worsens with daily activities and at times of emotional stress	Neck, shoulder, upper back or abdominal discomfort	Shortness of breath	Unusual fatigue	A loss of energy	Trouble sleeping	
Smallpox	Fever	Overall discomfort	Headache	Severe fatigue	Severe back pain	Vomiting, possibly	
Snoring	Noise during sleep 	Excessive daytime sleepiness 	Difficulty concentrating 	Sore throat 	Restless sleep 	Gasping or choking at night 	High blood pressure 	Chest pain at night 	
Social anxiety disorder	Fear of situations in which you may be judged	Worrying about embarrassing or humiliating yourself	Concern that you'll offend someone	Intense fear of interacting or talking with strangers	Fear that others will notice that you look anxious	Fear of physical symptoms that may cause you embarrassment, such as blushing, sweating, trembling or having a shaky voice	Avoiding doing things or speaking to people out of fear of embarrassment	Avoiding situations where you might be the center of attention	Having anxiety in anticipation of a feared activity or event	Spending time after a social situation analyzing your performance and identifying flaws in your interactions	Expecting the worst possible consequences from a negative experience during a social situation	
Solitary rectal ulcer syndrome	Constipation 	A feeling of incomplete passing of stool	Pain or a feeling of fullness in your pelvis 	Passing mucus from your rectum 	Fecal incontinence 	Rectal pain or anal sphincter spasms 	Rectal bleeding 	Straining during bowel movements 	
Sore throat	Pain or a scratchy sensation in the throat 	Pain that worsens with swallowing or talking 	Difficulty swallowing 	Dry throat 	Sore, swollen glands in your neck or jaw 	Swollen, red tonsils 	White patches or pus on your tonsils 	Hoarse or muffled voice 	
Soy allergy	Tingling in the mouth	Hives; itching; or itchy, scaly skin (eczema)	Swelling of lips, face, tongue and throat, or other body parts	Wheezing, runny nose or breathing difficulty	Abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting	Skin redness (flushing)	
Spermatocele	Pain or discomfort in the affected testicle	A feeling of heaviness in the testicle with the spermatocele	A mass, or fullness, behind and above the testicle	
Spider bites	Pain. Typically beginning within an hour of being bitten, pain can spread from the bite site into your abdomen, back or chest.	Cramping. Abdominal cramping or rigidity can be so severe that it's sometimes mistaken for appendicitis or a ruptured appendix.	Sweating. Excessive sweating can occur around the bite mark or may involve the entire limb.	
Spina bifida	An abnormal tuft of hair	A collection of fat	A small dimple or birthmark	
Spinal arteriovenous malformations	Problems with walking or climbing stairs	Numbness, tingling or sudden pain in your legs	Weakness on one or both sides of your body	
Spinal cord injury	Complete. If almost all feeling (sensory) and all ability to control movement (motor function) are lost below the spinal cord injury, your injury is called complete.	Incomplete. If you have some motor or sensory function below the affected area, your injury is called incomplete. There are varying degrees of incomplete injury.	
Spinal headaches	Dull, throbbing pain that varies in intensity from mild to incapacitating	Pain that typically gets worse when you sit up or stand and decreases or goes away when you lie down	
Spinal stenosis	In the neck. Narrowing in the upper (cervical) spine can cause numbness, weakness or tingling in a leg, foot, arm or hand. In severe cases, nerves to the bladder or bowel may be affected, leading to incontinence. 	In the lower back. Compressed nerves in your lower (lumbar) spine can cause pain or cramping in your legs when you stand for long periods of time or when you walk. The discomfort usually eases when you bend forward or sit down. 	
Sprained ankle	Pain, especially when you bear weight on the affected foot	Swelling and, sometimes, bruising	Restricted range of motion	
Sprains and strains	Pain	Swelling	Bruising	Limited ability to move the affected joint	At the time of injury, you may hear or feel a "pop" in your joint	
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin	A firm, red nodule	A flat sore with a scaly crust	A new sore or raised area on an old scar or ulcer	A rough, scaly patch on your lip that may evolve to an open sore	A red sore or rough patch inside your mouth	A red, raised patch or wart-like sore on or in the anus or on your genitals	
Stage 4 prostate cancer	Painful urination	Decreased force in the stream of urine	Blood in the semen	Erectile dysfunction	Bone pain	Swelling in the legs	Fatigue	Frequent infections	
Stuttering	Difficulty starting a word, sentence or phrase	Prolonging a word or sounds within a word	Repetition of a sound, syllable or word	Brief silence for certain syllables or pauses within a word (broken word)	Addition of extra words such as "um" if difficulty moving to the next word is anticipated	Excess tension, tightness or movement of the face or upper body to produce a word	Anxiety about talking	Limited ability to effectively communicate	
Staph infections	
    Boils. The most common type of staph infection is the boil, a pocket of pus that develops in a hair follicle or oil gland. The skin over the infected area usually becomes red and swollen.
    If a boil breaks open, it will probably drain pus. Boils occur most often under the arms or around the groin or buttocks.
    	Impetigo. This contagious, often painful rash can be caused by staph bacteria. Impetigo usually features large blisters that may ooze fluid and develop a honey-colored crust.	Cellulitis. Cellulitis — an infection of the deeper layers of skin — causes skin redness and swelling on the surface of your skin. Sores (ulcers) or areas of oozing discharge may develop, too. Cellulitis occurs most often in the lower legs and feet.	Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome. Toxins produced as a result of a staph infection may lead to staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome. Affecting mostly newborns and children, this condition features fever, a rash and sometimes blisters. When the blisters break, the top layer of skin comes off — leaving a red, raw surface that looks like a burn.	
Stevens-Johnson syndrome	Facial swelling	Tongue swelling	Hives	Skin pain	A red or purple skin rash that spreads within hours to days	Blisters on your skin and the mucous membranes of your mouth, nose, eyes and genitals	Shedding of your skin	
Stickler syndrome	Eye problems. In addition to severe nearsightedness, children who have Stickler syndrome often experience cataracts, glaucoma and retinal detachments.	Hearing difficulties. The extent of hearing loss varies among people who have Stickler syndrome. It usually affects the ability to hear high frequencies.	Bone and joint abnormalities. Children who have Stickler syndrome often have overly flexible joints and are more likely to develop abnormal curvatures of the spine, such as scoliosis. Osteoarthritis can begin in adolescence.	
Stomach cancer	Fatigue	Feeling bloated after eating	Feeling full after eating small amounts of food	Heartburn that is severe and persistent	Indigestion that is severe and unrelenting	Nausea that is persistent and unexplained	Stomach pain	Vomiting that is persistent	Weight loss that is unintentional	
Stomach polyps	Pain or tenderness when you press your stomach area (abdomen) 	Bleeding 	Anemia 	
Strep throat	Throat pain	Difficulty swallowing	Red and swollen tonsils, sometimes with white patches or streaks of pus	Tiny red spots on the soft or hard palate — the area at the back of the roof of the mouth	Swollen, tender lymph glands (nodes) in your neck	Fever	Headache	Rash	Stomachache and sometimes vomiting, especially in younger children	Fatigue	
Stress incontinence	Cough	Sneeze	Laugh	Stand up	Get out of a car	Lift something heavy	Exercise	Have sex	
Stretch marks	Indented streaks or lines in the skin	Multiple pink, red or purple streaks	Bright streaks that fade to a light pink, white or grayish color	
Sty	A red lump on your eyelid that is similar to a boil or a pimple	Eyelid pain	Eyelid swelling	Tearing	Crusting around the eyelids	
Sudden cardiac arrest	Sudden collapse	No pulse	No breathing	Loss of consciousness	
Suicide and suicidal thoughts	Talking about suicide — for example, making statements such as "I'm going to kill myself," "I wish I was dead" or "I wish I hadn't been born" 	Getting the means to commit suicide, such as buying a gun or stockpiling pills 	Withdrawing from social contact and wanting to be left alone 	Having mood swings, such as being emotionally high one day and deeply discouraged the next 	Being preoccupied with death, dying or violence 	Feeling trapped or hopeless about a situation 	Increasing use of alcohol or drugs 	Changing normal routine, including eating or sleeping patterns 	Doing risky or self-destructive things, such as using drugs or driving recklessly 	Giving away belongings or getting affairs in order when there is no other logical explanation for why this is being done 	Saying goodbye to people as if they won't be seen again 	Developing personality changes or being severely anxious or agitated, particularly when experiencing some of the warning signs listed above 	
Sun allergy	Redness	Itching or pain	Tiny bumps that may merge into raised patches	Scaling, crusting or bleeding	Blisters or hives	
Sunburn: Soothing solutions	Pinkness or redness	Skin that feels warm or hot to the touch	Pain, tenderness or itching	Swelling	Small fluid-filled blisters, which may break	Headache, fever, chills and fatigue if the sunburn is severe	
Suspicious breast lumps	Breast cysts. If you find a breast lump that feels round, smooth and firm, it could be a cyst — a dilated milk duct filled with fluid. A breast cyst can be large or small, and the surrounding breast tissue may be tender. A breast cyst may appear before your menstrual period and get smaller or disappear afterward.	Fibrocystic breast changes. With fibrocystic breast changes, you may feel fullness in your breasts with areas of lumpiness and tenderness. Many women experience fibrocystic breast changes related to their menstrual cycles.	Fibroadenomas. Fibroadenomas are solid, noncancerous breast tumors that are smooth and move easily under your skin when touched. A fibroadenoma may grow larger if you're pregnant or using hormone therapy.	Injuries and infections. A severe injury to your breast tissue or nearby nerves can create a breast lump. Doctors describe this condition as fat necrosis. A collection of infected fluid (abscess) in breast tissue also can cause a breast lump, one that's often associated with localized breast pain.	Breast cancer. A breast lump that's painless, hard, irregularly shaped and different from surrounding breast tissue might be breast cancer. Skin covering the lump may look red, dimpled or pitted like the skin of an orange. Your breast size and shape may change, or you may notice discharge from the nipple.	
Sweating and body odor	You suddenly begin to sweat much more or less than usual	Sweating disrupts your daily routine	You experience night sweats for no apparent reason	You notice a change in your body odor	
Swimmer's ear	Itching in your ear canal 	Slight redness inside your ear 	Mild discomfort that's made worse by pulling on your outer ear (pinna, or auricle) or pushing on the little "bump" (tragus) in front of your ear 	Some drainage of clear, odorless fluid 	
Swine flu (H1N1 flu)	Fever	Cough	Sore throat	Runny or stuffy nose	Body aches	Headache	Chills	Fatigue	Diarrhea	Vomiting	
Swollen lymph nodes	Tender and painful lymph nodes	Swollen lymph nodes that may be the size of a pea or kidney bean, or even larger	
Syringomyelia	Muscle weakness and wasting (atrophy)	Loss of reflexes	Loss of sensitivity to pain and temperature	
Systemic capillary leak syndrome	Sudden swelling (edema) of the arms, legs and other parts of the body	Rapid drop in blood pressure	Shock	Lightheadedness	Weakness	Fatigue	Nausea	
Tachycardia	Dizziness	Shortness of breath	Lightheadedness	Rapid pulse rate	Heart palpitations — a racing, uncomfortable or irregular heartbeat or a sensation of "flopping" in the chest	Chest pain	Fainting (syncope)	
Takayasu's arteritis	Fatigue 	Fast and unintentional weight loss 	Muscle aches 	Joint pain 	Slight fever 	
Tapeworm infection	Nausea	Weakness	Loss of appetite	Abdominal pain	Diarrhea	Weight loss and inadequate absorption of nutrients from food	
Tuberculosis	Latent TB. In this condition, you have a TB infection, but the bacteria remain in your body in an inactive state and cause no symptoms. Latent TB, also called inactive TB or TB infection, isn't contagious. It can turn into active TB, so treatment is important for the person with latent TB and to help control the spread of TB in general. An estimated 2 billion people have latent TB.	Active TB. This condition makes you sick and can spread to others. It can occur in the first few weeks after infection with the TB bacteria, or it might occur years later.	
Teen depression	Feelings of sadness, which can include crying spells for no apparent reason	Irritability, frustration or feelings of anger, even over small matters	Loss of interest or pleasure in normal activities	Loss of interest in, or conflict with, family and friends	Feelings of worthlessness, guilt, fixation on past failures or exaggerated self-blame or self-criticism	Extreme sensitivity to rejection or failure, and the need for excessive reassurance 	Trouble thinking, concentrating, making decisions and remembering things	Ongoing sense that life and the future are grim and bleak	Frequent thoughts of death, dying or suicide	
Temporal lobe seizure	A sudden sense of unprovoked fear	A deja vu experience — a feeling that what's happening has happened before	A sudden or strange odor or taste	A rising sensation in the abdomen	
TMJ disorders	Pain or tenderness of your jaw	Aching pain in and around your ear	Difficulty chewing or discomfort while chewing	Aching facial pain	Locking of the joint, making it difficult to open or close your mouth	
Tendinitis	Pain often described as a dull ache, especially when moving the affected limb or joint	Tenderness	Mild swelling	
Tennis elbow	Shake hands	Turn a doorknob	Hold a coffee cup	
Tension headache	Dull, aching head pain 	Sensation of tightness or pressure across your forehead or on the sides and back of your head 	Tenderness on your scalp, neck and shoulder muscles 	
Testicular cancer	A lump or enlargement in either testicle	A feeling of heaviness in the scrotum	A dull ache in the abdomen or groin	A sudden collection of fluid in the scrotum	Pain or discomfort in a testicle or the scrotum	Enlargement or tenderness of the breasts	Back pain	
Testicular torsion	Sudden or severe pain in the scrotum — the loose bag of skin under your penis that contains the testicles 	Swelling of the scrotum 	Abdominal pain 	Nausea and vomiting 	A testicle that's positioned higher than normal or at an unusual angle 	
Tetanus	Spasms and stiffness in your jaw muscles	Stiffness of your neck muscles	Difficulty swallowing	Stiffness of your abdominal muscles	Painful body spasms lasting for several minutes, typically triggered by minor occurrences, such as a draft, loud noise, physical touch or light	
Tetralogy of Fallot	A bluish coloration of the skin caused by blood low in oxygen (cyanosis)	Shortness of breath and rapid breathing, especially during feeding	Loss of consciousness (fainting)	Clubbing of fingers and toes — an abnormal, rounded shape of the nail bed	Poor weight gain	Tiring easily during play	Irritability	Prolonged crying	A heart murmur	
Transient global amnesia	Sudden onset of memory loss, verified by a witness	Retention of personal identity despite memory loss	Normal cognition, such as the ability to recognize and name familiar objects and follow simple directions	Absence of signs indicating damage to a particular area of the brain, such as limb paralysis, involuntary movement or impaired word recognition	
Thalassemia	Fatigue	Weakness	Pale appearance	Yellow discoloration of skin (jaundice)	Facial bone deformities	Slow growth	Abdominal swelling	Dark urine	
Thoracic outlet syndrome	
    Neurogenic (neurological) thoracic outlet syndrome. This form of thoracic outlet syndrome is characterized by compression of the brachial plexus. The brachial plexus is a network of nerves that come from your spinal cord and control muscle movements and sensation in your shoulder, arm and hand. 
    In the majority of thoracic outlet syndrome cases, the symptoms are neurogenic. 
    	Vascular thoracic outlet syndrome. This type of thoracic outlet syndrome occurs when one or more of the veins (venous thoracic outlet syndrome) or arteries (arterial thoracic outlet syndrome) under the collarbone (clavicle) are compressed. 	
    Nonspecific-type thoracic outlet syndrome. This type is also called disputed thoracic outlet syndrome. Some doctors don't believe it exists, while others say it's a common disorder. 
    People with nonspecific-type thoracic outlet syndrome have chronic pain in the area of the thoracic outlet that worsens with activity, but the specific cause of the pain can't be determined. 
    	
Throat cancer	A cough 	Changes in your voice, such as hoarseness 	Difficulty swallowing 	Ear pain 	A lump or sore that doesn't heal 	A sore throat 	Weight loss 	
Thrombocytopenia	Easy or excessive bruising	Superficial bleeding into the skin that appears as a rash of pinpoint-sized reddish-purple spots (petechiae), usually on the lower legs	Prolonged bleeding from cuts	Spontaneous bleeding from your gums or nose	Blood in urine or stools	Unusually heavy menstrual flows	Profuse bleeding during surgery or after dental work	
Thrombocytosis	Headache	Dizziness or lightheadedness	Chest pain	Weakness	Fainting	Temporary vision changes	Numbness or tingling of the hands and feet	
Thrombophlebitis	Warmth, tenderness and pain in the affected area	Redness and swelling	
Thumb arthritis	Swelling, stiffness and tenderness at the base of your thumb	Decreased strength when pinching or grasping objects	Decreased range of motion	Enlarged, bony or out-of-joint appearance of the joint at the base of your thumb	
Thunderclap headaches	Strikes suddenly and severely — sometimes described as the worst headache ever experienced	Peaks within 60 seconds	Lasts for anywhere between an hour to 10 days	Can occur anywhere in the head or neck	Can be accompanied by nausea or vomiting	
Thyroid cancer	A lump that can be felt through the skin on your neck	Changes to your voice, including increasing hoarseness	Difficulty swallowing	Pain in your neck and throat	Swollen lymph nodes in your neck	
Thyroid nodules	Be felt	Be seen, often as a swelling at the base of your neck	Press on your windpipe or esophagus, causing shortness of breath or difficulty swallowing	
Transient ischemic attack (TIA)	Weakness, numbness or paralysis in your face, arm or leg, typically on one side of your body	Slurred or garbled speech or difficulty understanding others	Blindness in one or both eyes or double vision	Dizziness or loss of balance or coordination	
Trigeminal neuralgia	Occasional twinges of mild pain	Episodes of severe, shooting or jabbing pain that may feel like an electric shock	Spontaneous attacks of pain or attacks triggered by things such as touching the face, chewing, speaking and brushing teeth	Bouts of pain lasting from a few seconds to several seconds	Episodes of several attacks lasting days, weeks, months or longer — some people have periods when they experience no pain	Pain in areas supplied by the trigeminal nerve, including the cheek, jaw, teeth, gums, lips, or less often the eye and forehead	Pain affecting one side of your face at a time	Pain focused in one spot or spread in a wider pattern	Attacks becoming more frequent and intense over time	
Tinea versicolor	Colored white, pink, tan or dark brown	Slow-growing, scaly and mildly itchy	More noticeable after sun exposure	Located on the back, chest, neck and upper arms	
Tinnitus	Ringing 	Buzzing 	Roaring 	Clicking 	Hissing 	
Tongue cancer	In the mouth, where it may be more likely to be seen and felt (oral tongue cancer). This type of tongue cancer tends to be diagnosed when the cancer is small and more easily removed through surgery.	
    In the throat, at the base of the tongue, where tongue cancer may develop with few signs and symptoms (hypopharyngeal tongue cancer). Base of tongue cancer is usually diagnosed at an advanced stage, when the tumor is larger and the cancer has spread into the lymph nodes in the neck.
    Increasingly, base of tongue cancers are associated with human papillomavirus (HPV), which has a profound effect on the prognosis and treatment of the cancer.
    	
Tongue-tie (ankyloglossia)	Difficulty lifting the tongue to the upper teeth or moving the tongue from side to side	Trouble sticking out the tongue past the lower front teeth	A tongue that appears notched or heart shaped when stuck out	
Tonsillitis	Red, swollen tonsils	White or yellow coating or patches on the tonsils	Sore throat	Difficult or painful swallowing	Fever	Enlarged, tender glands (lymph nodes) in the neck	A scratchy, muffled or throaty voice	Bad breath	Stomachache, particularly in younger children	Stiff neck	Headache	
Tooth abscess	Severe, persistent, throbbing toothache	Sensitivity to hot and cold temperatures	Sensitivity to the pressure of chewing or biting	Fever	Swelling in your face or cheek	Tender, swollen lymph nodes under your jaw or in your neck	Sudden rush of foul-smelling and foul-tasting fluid in your mouth and pain relief if the abscess ruptures	
Torn meniscus	A popping sensation	Swelling or stiffness	Pain, especially when twisting or rotating your knee	Difficulty straightening your knee fully	Experiencing what feels like a block to moving your knee, as if your knee were locked in place	
Tourette syndrome	Simple tics, which are sudden, brief and repetitive, involving a limited number of muscle groups	Complex tics, which are distinct, coordinated patterns of movements that involve several muscle groups	
Toxic hepatitis	Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice) 	Itching 	Abdominal pain in the upper right portion of the abdomen 	Fatigue 	Loss of appetite 	Nausea and vomiting 	Rash 	Weight loss 	Dark or tea-colored urine 	
Toxic shock syndrome	A sudden high fever	Low blood pressure (hypotension)	Vomiting or diarrhea	A rash resembling a sunburn, particularly on your palms and soles	Confusion	Muscle aches	Redness of your eyes, mouth and throat	Seizures	Headaches	
Toxoplasmosis	Body aches	Swollen lymph nodes	Headache	Fever	Fatigue	
Trachoma	Mild itching and irritation of the eyes and eyelids 	Discharge from the eyes containing mucus or pus 	
Transposition of the great arteries	Blue color of the skin (cyanosis) 	Shortness of breath 	Lack of appetite 	Poor weight gain 	
Transverse myelitis	Pain. Pain associated with transverse myelitis often begins suddenly in your neck or back, depending on the part of your spinal cord that's affected. Sharp, shooting sensations may also radiate down your legs or arms or around your abdomen.	Abnormal sensations. Some people with transverse myelitis report sensations of numbness, tingling, coldness or burning. Some are especially sensitive to the light touch of clothing or to extreme heat or cold. You may feel as if something is tightly wrapping the skin of your chest, abdomen or legs.	Weakness in your arms or legs. Some people with mild weakness notice that they're stumbling or dragging one foot or that their legs feel heavy as they move. Others may develop paralysis.	Bladder and bowel problems. These problems may include an increased urinary urge, urinary incontinence, difficulty urinating and constipation.	
Traumatic brain injury	Loss of consciousness for a few seconds to a few minutes 	No loss of consciousness, but a state of being dazed, confused or disoriented 	Headache 	Nausea or vomiting 	Fatigue or drowsiness 	Difficulty sleeping 	Sleeping more than usual 	Dizziness or loss of balance 	
Traveler's diarrhea	Abrupt onset of passage of three or more loose stools a day 	An urgent need to defecate 	Abdominal cramps 	Nausea 	Vomiting 	Fever 	
Trench mouth	Severe gum pain 	Bleeding from gums when they're pressed even slightly 	Red or swollen gums 	Pain when eating or swallowing 	Gray film on your gums 	Crater-like sores (ulcers) between your teeth and on your gums 	Foul taste in your mouth 	Bad breath 	Fever and fatigue (malaise) 	Swollen lymph nodes around your head, neck or jaw 	
Trichinosis	Diarrhea	Abdominal cramps	
Trichomoniasis	A profuse and often foul-smelling vaginal discharge — which may be white, gray, yellow or green	Genital redness, burning and itching	Pain with urination or sexual intercourse	
Trichotillomania	Repeatedly pulling your hair out, typically from your scalp, eyebrows or eyelashes, but can be from other body areas, and sites may vary over time	An increasing sense of tension before pulling, or when you try to resist pulling	A sense of pleasure or relief after the hair is pulled	Shortened hair or thinned or bald areas on the scalp or other areas of your body, including sparse or missing eyelashes or eyebrows	Preference for specific types of hair, rituals that accompany hair pulling or patterns of hair pulling	Biting, chewing or eating pulled-out hair	Playing with pulled-out hair or rubbing it across your lips or face	
Tricuspid atresia	Blue tinge to the skin and lips (cyanosis) 	Difficulty breathing (dyspnea) 	Tiring easily, especially during feedings 	Slow growth 	
Tricuspid valve disease	Tricuspid valve regurgitation. In this condition, the tricuspid valve doesn't close properly and blood flows back into your heart's upper right chamber (right atrium).	Tricuspid valve stenosis. In this condition, the tricuspid valve is narrowed, decreasing the amount of blood that can flow through it from the right atrium to the right ventricle.	Tricuspid atresia. In tricuspid atresia, a condition present at birth (congenital heart disease), a solid wall of tissue blocks the blood flow between your right heart chambers.	Ebstein's anomaly. Ebstein's anomaly is a condition in which a malformed tricuspid valve sits lower than normal in the right ventricle, causing blood to flow back into the right atrium (tricuspid regurgitation).	
Trigger finger	Finger stiffness, particularly in the morning	A popping or clicking sensation as you move your finger	Tenderness or a bump (nodule) in the palm at the base of the affected finger	Finger catching or locking in a bent position, which suddenly pops straight	Finger locked in a bent position, which you are unable to straighten	
Triple X syndrome	Tall stature	Vertical skinfolds that may cover the inner corners of the eyes (epicanthal folds)	Delayed development of speech and language skills	Weak muscle tone (hypotonia)	Curved pinky fingers (clinodactyly)	Behavior and mental health problems	Premature ovarian failure or ovary abnormalities	Constipation or abdominal pains	
Truncus arteriosus	Blue coloring of the skin (cyanosis) 	Poor feeding 	Excessive sleepiness 	Poor growth 	Shortness of breath (dyspnea) 	Rapid breathing (tachypnea) 	Irregular heartbeats (arrhythmia) 	Excessive sweating (diaphoresis) 	
Tuberous sclerosis	Skin abnormalities. Some people with tuberous sclerosis have patches of light-colored skin, or they may develop small, harmless areas of thickened skin, or growths under or around the nails. Facial lesions that resemble acne also are common and can be treated.	Seizures. Lesions in the brain may be associated with seizures, which can be the first symptom of tuberous sclerosis. In small children, a common type of seizure called infantile spasm shows up as repetitive spasms of the head and legs.	Developmental delays. Tuberous sclerosis can be associated with intellectual disability, learning disabilities or developmental delays.	Behavior problems. Common behavior problems may include hyperactivity, raging outbursts, aggression, repetitive behaviors, or social and emotional withdrawal.	Communication and social interaction problems. Some children with tuberous sclerosis have trouble with communication and social interaction. And some children may have autism spectrum disorder.	Kidney problems. Most people with tuberous sclerosis develop lesions on their kidneys, and they may develop more lesions as they age, sometimes damaging kidney function.	Heart problems. These lesions, if present, are usually largest at birth and shrink as the child gets older.	Lung problems. Lesions that develop in the lungs (pulmonary leiomyomas) may cause coughing or shortness of breath, especially with physical activity or exercise.	Eye abnormalities. Lesions can appear as white patches on the light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye (retina). These do not always interfere with vision.	
Tularemia	A skin ulcer that forms at the site of infection — usually an insect or animal bite	Swollen and painful lymph glands	Fever	Chills	Headache	Exhaustion	
Turner syndrome	Large fluid collection on the back of the neck or other abnormal fluid collections	Heart abnormalities	Abnormal kidneys	
Type 1 diabetes	Increased thirst	Frequent urination	Bedwetting in children who previously didn't wet the bed during the night	Extreme hunger	Unintended weight loss	Irritability and other mood changes	Fatigue and weakness	Blurred vision	In females, a vaginal yeast infection	
Type 1 diabetes in children	Increased thirst and frequent urination. As excess sugar builds up in your child's bloodstream, fluid is pulled from the tissues. This may leave your child thirsty. As a result, your child may drink — and urinate — more than usual.	Extreme hunger. Without enough insulin to move sugar into your child's cells, your child's muscles and organs become energy-depleted. This triggers intense hunger.	Weight loss. Despite eating more than usual to relieve hunger, your child may lose weight — sometimes rapidly. Without the energy sugar supplies, muscle tissues and fat stores simply shrink. Unexplained weight loss is often the first sign to be noticed.	Fatigue. If your child's cells are deprived of sugar, he or she may become tired and lethargic.	Irritability or unusual behavior. Children with undiagnosed type 1 diabetes may suddenly seem moody or irritable.	Blurred vision. If your child's blood sugar is too high, fluid may be pulled from the lenses of your child's eyes. This may affect your child's ability to focus clearly.	Yeast infection. Girls with type 1 diabetes may have a genital yeast infection, and babies can develop diaper rash caused by yeast.	
Type 2 diabetes	Increased thirst and frequent urination. Excess sugar building up in your bloodstream causes fluid to be pulled from the tissues. This may leave you thirsty. As a result, you may drink — and urinate — more than usual.	Increased hunger. Without enough insulin to move sugar into your cells, your muscles and organs become depleted of energy. This triggers intense hunger.	Weight loss. Despite eating more than usual to relieve hunger, you may lose weight. Without the ability to metabolize glucose, the body uses alternative fuels stored in muscle and fat. Calories are lost as excess glucose is released in the urine.	Fatigue. If your cells are deprived of sugar, you may become tired and irritable.	Blurred vision. If your blood sugar is too high, fluid may be pulled from the lenses of your eyes. This may affect your ability to focus.	Slow-healing sores or frequent infections. Type 2 diabetes affects your ability to heal and resist infections.	Areas of darkened skin. Some people with type 2 diabetes have patches of dark, velvety skin in the folds and creases of their bodies — usually in the armpits and neck. This condition, called acanthosis nigricans, may be a sign of insulin resistance.	
Type 2 diabetes in children	Increased thirst and urination. As excess sugar builds up in your child's bloodstream, fluid is pulled from the tissues. This may leave your child thirsty. As a result, your child may drink — and urinate — more than usual. 	Increased hunger. Without enough insulin to move sugar into your child's cells, your child's muscles and organs become depleted of energy. This triggers hunger. 	Weight loss. Despite eating more than usual to relieve hunger, your child may lose weight. Without the energy that sugar supplies to your cells, muscle tissues and fat stores simply shrink.	Fatigue. If your child's cells are deprived of sugar, he or she may become tired and irritable.	Blurred vision. If your child's blood sugar is too high, fluid may be pulled from the lenses of your child's eyes. This may affect your child's ability to focus clearly.	Slow-healing sores or frequent infections. Type 2 diabetes affects your child's ability to heal and resist infections.	Areas of darkened skin. Areas of darkened skin (acanthosis nigricans) may be a sign of insulin resistance. These dark patches often occur in the armpits or neck.	
Typhoid fever	Fever, that starts low and increases daily, often to as high as 103 or 104 F (39.4 or 40 C) 	Headache 	Weakness and fatigue 	Dry cough 	Loss of appetite 	Abdominal pain 	Diarrhea or constipation 	Rash 	
Ulcerative colitis	Diarrhea, often with blood or pus 	Abdominal pain and cramping 	Rectal pain 	Rectal bleeding — passing small amount of blood with stool 	Urgency to defecate 	Inability to defecate despite urgency 	Weight loss 	Fatigue 	Fever 	In children, failure to grow 	
Umbilical hernia	Your baby appears to be in pain	Your baby begins to vomit	The bulge becomes tender, swollen or discolored	
Undescended testicle	A retractile testicle, which moves back and forth between the scrotum and the groin and may be easily guided by hand into the scrotum during a physical exam. This is not abnormal and is due to a muscle reflex in the scrotum.	An ascending testicle, or acquired undescended testicle, which has "returned" to the groin and can't be easily guided by hand into the scrotum.	
Urinary incontinence	Stress incontinence. Urine leaks when you exert pressure on your bladder by coughing, sneezing, laughing, exercising or lifting something heavy.	Urge incontinence. You have a sudden, intense urge to urinate followed by an involuntary loss of urine. You may need to urinate often, including throughout the night. Urge incontinence may be caused by a minor condition, such as infection, or a more severe condition such as neurologic disorder or diabetes.	Overflow incontinence. You experience frequent or constant dribbling of urine due to a bladder that doesn't empty completely.	Functional incontinence. A physical or mental impairment keeps you from making it to the toilet in time. For example, if you have severe arthritis, you may not be able to unbutton your pants quickly enough.	Mixed incontinence. You experience more than one type of urinary incontinence.	
Urinary tract infection	A strong, persistent urge to urinate	A burning sensation when urinating	Passing frequent, small amounts of urine	Urine that appears cloudy	Urine that appears red, bright pink or cola-colored — a sign of blood in the urine	Strong-smelling urine	Pelvic pain, in women	Rectal pain, in men	
Urine color	Visible blood in your urine. Bloody urine is common in urinary tract infections and kidney stones. Both of these problems usually cause pain. Painless bleeding may signal more serious problems, such as cancer. 	Dark brown urine. If your urine is dark brown — particularly if you also have pale stools and yellow skin and eyes — your liver might be malfunctioning. 	
Uterine fibroids	Heavy menstrual bleeding	Prolonged menstrual periods — seven days or more of menstrual bleeding	Pelvic pressure or pain	Frequent urination	Difficulty emptying your bladder	Constipation	Backache or leg pains	
Uterine polyps	Irregular menstrual bleeding — for example, having frequent, unpredictable periods of variable length and heaviness	Bleeding between menstrual periods	Excessively heavy menstrual periods	Vaginal bleeding after menopause	Infertility	
Uterine prolapse	Sensation of heaviness or pulling in your pelvis	Tissue protruding from your vagina	Urinary problems, such as urine leakage or urine retention	Trouble having a bowel movement	Low back pain	Feeling as if you're sitting on a small ball or as if something is falling out of your vagina	Sexual concerns, such as a sensation of looseness in the tone of your vaginal tissue	Symptoms that are less bothersome in the morning and worsen as the day goes on	
Uveitis	Eye redness	Eye pain	Light sensitivity	Blurred vision	Dark, floating spots in your field of vision (floaters)	Decreased vision	Whitish area (hypopyon) inside the eye in front of the lower part of the colored area of the eye (iris)	
Vaginal atrophy	Vaginal dryness 	Vaginal burning 	Vaginal discharge 	Genital itching 	Burning with urination 	Urgency with urination 	More urinary tract infections 	Urinary incontinence 	Light bleeding after intercourse 	Discomfort with intercourse 	Decreased vaginal lubrication during sexual activity 	Shortening and tightening of the vaginal canal 	
Vaginal cancer	Unusual vaginal bleeding, for example, after intercourse or after menopause	Watery vaginal discharge	A lump or mass in your vagina	Painful urination	Constipation	Pelvic pain	
Vaginal dryness	Itching or stinging around the vaginal opening and the lower part of the vagina 	Burning 	Soreness 	Pain or light bleeding with intercourse 	Urinary frequency or urgency 	Recurrent urinary tract infections 	
Vaginal fistula	Vesicovaginal fistula. Also called a bladder fistula, this opening occurs between your vagina and urinary bladder and is the type that doctors see most often.	Ureterovaginal fistula. This type of fistula happens when the abnormal opening develops between your vagina and the ducts that carry urine from your kidneys to your bladder (ureters).	Urethrovaginal fistula. In this type of fistula, also called a urethral fistula, the opening occurs between your vagina and the tube that carries urine out of your body (urethra).	Rectovaginal fistula. In this type of fistula, also known as a rectal fistula, the opening is between your vagina and the lower portion of your large intestine (rectum).	Colovaginal fistula. With a colovaginal fistula, the opening occurs between the vagina and colon.	Enterovaginal fistula. In this type of fistula, the opening is between the small intestine and the vagina.	
Vaginitis	Change in color, odor or amount of discharge from your vagina	Vaginal itching or irritation	Pain during intercourse	Painful urination	Light vaginal bleeding or spotting	
Valley fever	Fever 	Cough 	Chest pain — varying from a mild feeling of constriction to intense pressure resembling a heart attack 	Chills 	Night sweats 	Headache 	Fatigue 	Joint aches 	Red, spotty rash 	
Varicocele	Vary from sharp to dull discomfort	Increase with standing or physical exertion, especially over long periods	Worsen over the course of a day	Be relieved when you lie on your back	
Varicose veins	Veins that are dark purple or blue in color	Veins that appear twisted and bulging; often like cords on your legs	
Vascular dementia	Confusion	Trouble paying attention and concentrating	Reduced ability to organize thoughts or actions	Decline in ability to analyze a situation, develop an effective plan and communicate that plan to others 	Difficulty deciding what to do next	Problems with memory	Restlessness and agitation 	Unsteady gait	Sudden or frequent urge to urinate or inability to control passing urine	Depression	
Vasculitis	Fever	Headache	Fatigue	Weight loss	General aches and pains	Night sweats	Rash	Nerve problems, such as numbness or weakness	Loss of a pulse in a limb	
Vasovagal syncope	Skin paleness 	Lightheadedness 	Tunnel vision — your field of vision is constricted so that you see only what's in front of you 	Nausea 	Feeling of warmth 	A cold, clammy sweat 	Yawning 	Blurred vision 	
Ventricular fibrillation	Chest pain	Rapid heartbeat (tachycardia)	Dizziness	Nausea	Shortness of breath	Loss of consciousness	
Ventricular septal defect	Poor eating, failure to thrive	Fast breathing or breathlessness	Easy tiring	
Vesicoureteral reflux	A strong, persistent urge to urinate	A burning sensation when urinating	Passing frequent, small amounts of urine	Blood in the urine (hematuria) or cloudy, strong-smelling urine	Fever	Pain in your side (flank) or abdomen	Hesitancy to urinate or holding urine to avoid the burning sensation	
Viral gastroenteritis	Watery, usually nonbloody diarrhea — bloody diarrhea usually means you have a different, more severe infection	Abdominal cramps and pain	Nausea, vomiting or both	Occasional muscle aches or headache	Low-grade fever	
Viral hemorrhagic fevers	High fever 	Fatigue 	Dizziness 	Muscle, bone or joint aches 	Weakness 	
Vitamin deficiency anemia	Fatigue 	Shortness of breath 	Dizziness 	Pale or yellowish skin 	Irregular heartbeats 	Weight loss 	Numbness or tingling in your hands and feet 	Muscle weakness 	Personality changes 	Unsteady movements 	Mental confusion or forgetfulness 	
Vitiligo	Skin discoloration	Premature whitening or graying of the hair on your scalp, eyelashes, eyebrows or beard (usually before age 35)	Loss of color in the tissues that line the inside of your mouth and nose (mucous membranes)	Loss of or change in color of the inner layer of the eyeball (retina)	Discolored patches around the armpits, navel, genitals and rectum	
Vocal cord paralysis	A breathy quality to the voice	Hoarseness	Noisy breathing	Loss of vocal pitch	Choking or coughing while swallowing food, drink or saliva	The need to take frequent breaths while speaking	Inability to speak loudly	Loss of your gag reflex	Ineffective coughing	Frequent throat clearing	
Von Willebrand disease	Recurrent and prolonged nosebleeds	Bleeding from the gums	Increased menstrual flow	Excessive bleeding from a cut or following a tooth extraction or other dental procedure	Blood in the stool or urine	Bleeding from shaving with a razor or other similarly minor injury	
Vulvar cancer	Itching that doesn't go away	Pain and tenderness	Bleeding that isn't from menstruation	Skin changes, such as color changes or thickening	A lump, wart-like bumps or an open sore (ulcer)	
Vulvodynia	Burning	Soreness	Stinging	Rawness	Painful intercourse (dyspareunia)	Throbbing	Itching	
Water on the knee	Swelling. The flesh around your kneecap may puff up noticeably. This swelling is most apparent when you compare the affected knee to the normal one.	Stiffness. When your knee joint contains excess fluid, you may not be able to bend or straighten your leg completely.	Pain. Depending on the cause of the fluid buildup, the knee may be very painful — to the point that it's impossible to bear weight on it.	
Wegener's granulomatosis	Constantly runny nose, with pus-filled discharge 	Nosebleeds 	Sinus pain and inflammation (sinusitis) 	Ear infections 	Cough 	Chest pain 	Coughing up blood (hemoptysis) 	Shortness of breath 	General ill feeling (malaise) 	Unintended weight loss 	Joint aches and swelling 	Blood in urine (hematuria) 	Skin sores 	Eye redness, burning or pain 	Fever 	
West Nile virus	Fever 	Headache 	Body aches 	Fatigue 	Back pain 	Skin rash (occasionally) 	Swollen lymph glands (occasionally) 	Eye pain (occasionally) 	
Wheat allergy	Swelling, itching or irritation of the mouth or throat	Hives, itchy rash or swelling of the skin	Nasal congestion	Headache	Itchy, watery eyes	Difficulty breathing	Cramps, nausea or vomiting	Diarrhea	Anaphylaxis	
Whiplash	Neck pain and stiffness	Worsening of pain with neck movement	Loss of range of motion in the neck	Headaches, most often starting at the base of the skull	Tenderness or pain in shoulder, upper back or arms	Tingling or numbness in the arms	Fatigue	Dizziness	
Whipple's disease	Diarrhea 	Abdominal cramping and pain, which may worsen after meals 	Weight loss, associated with the malabsorption of nutrients 	
Whooping cough	Runny nose	Nasal congestion	Red, watery eyes	Fever	Cough	
Wilms' tumor	Abdominal swelling	An abdominal mass you can feel	Abdominal pain	Fever	Blood in the urine	
Wilson's disease	Fatigue, lack of appetite or abdominal pain	Jaundice, a yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eye	A tendency to bruise easily	Fluid buildup in the legs or abdomen	Problems with speech, swallowing or physical coordination	Uncontrolled movements or muscle stiffness	
Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome	Sensation of rapid, fluttering or pounding heartbeats (palpitations) 	Dizziness 	Lightheadedness 	Fainting 	Tiring easily during exercise 	Anxiety 	
Yeast infection (vaginal)	Itching and irritation in the vagina and at the entrance to the vagina (vulva)	A burning sensation, especially during intercourse or while urinating	Redness and swelling of the vulva	Vaginal pain and soreness	Thick, white, odor-free vaginal discharge with a cottage cheese appearance	
Yellow fever	Fever	Headache	Muscle aches, particularly in your back and knees	Sensitivity to light	Nausea, vomiting or both	Loss of appetite	Dizziness	Red eyes, face or tongue	
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome	Abdominal pain 	Diarrhea 	Burning, aching, gnawing or discomfort in your upper abdomen 	Acid reflux and heartburn 	Nausea and vomiting 	Weakness 	Bleeding in your digestive tract 	Unintended weight loss 	Decreased appetite 	Anemia 	
